**Prime Minister Justin Trudeau**:
[speaking french] [voice of interpreter] good morning, everyone.[end of translation] we are a country that stands united in our effort to defeat a pandemic,to save lives, and to help each other make it to a better day. But yesterday we were jolted from that common cause by the senseless violence and tragedy in nova scotia. A gunman claimed the lives of atleast 18 people. Among them, a woman in uniform whose job it is to protect lives, even if it endangers her own, constable heidi stevenson of the rcmp. Constable stevenson died protecting others. She was answering the call of duty, something she had done every day when she went to work for 23 years. This happened in small towns, portapique, truro, millford, andenfield are people have deep roots, places where people know their neighbours and look out for everyone. There everyone knows a mountie because they're everything from social workers to teen counsellors. Now these communities are in mourning and canada is in mourning with them. To the grandparents who lost a child, to the children who lost a parent, to the neighbour who lost a friend, we are so sorry for your loss. Such a tragedy should have neveroccurred. Violence of any kind has no place in canada. We stand with you and we grieve with you and you can count on our government's full support during this incredibly painful time.[speaking french] [voice of interpreter] yesterday, at least18 people lost their lives aftera shoot-out in nova scotia, plunging families and their loved ones in mourning. Some lost children, some lost a parent, some lost a friend. Our thoughts and the thoughts ofall canadians are with you. Such a tragedy should never haveoccurred. There is no place for violence in our country. We share in your mourning and westand with you and mourn with you as you go through these verypainful times.[end of translation] I want to wish a full and speedy recovery to all those injured, including another rcmp officer. Canada is a vast and sweeping country, filled with long stretches of lonely roads. With unwavering courage and compassion, our royal canadian mounted police patrol these roads to keep us safe, as they have for over 100 years. I know from coast to coast to coast, the women and men who wear the red surge in service tocanada are grieving deeply the loss of one of their own and oneof our best. This tragedy is a painful reminder of the risks all of ourfirst responders take to keep ussafe, of the sacrifices they mayevery single day to protect our communities, paramedics, doctors, nurses, firefighters, and police officers, they're always here for us. They've been stepping up throughthe pandemic, and yesterday in nova scotia they showed that bravery. I want to take a moment to thankthem all for the professionalismand their courage. Many of you are already working overtime because of this pandemic. Our communities need you now more than ever. I know that can weigh on you at times. These are exceptional circumstances, yet you did what you always do. You ran towards danger, without pause, without hesitation, you put your life on the line. On behalf of all canadians, thank you for your service.[speaking french] [voice of interpreter] i'd just like to take a moment to thank all our first responders for their courage and their professionalism. You're already working hard because of the pandemic. More than ever, we need you, andsometimes that must seem to be aheavy responsibility and burden on your shoulders. Despite these exceptional circumstances, you have done what you're used to doing. You did not hesitate to risk your own lives to save others. On behalf of all canadians, thank you for everything you're doing.[end of translation] this day ismade all the more difficult because of the precious lives lost and the senseless act of one person. Just how could this happen?we may never know why. But we do know this. Know one man's action can build a wall between us and a better day, no matter how evil, how thoughtless, or how destructive. Canadians are kind and generous. We are there for each other and we look out for one another. As families grieve the loss of aloved one, all canadians are standing with them. The pandemic will prevent us from mourning together in person, but a vigil will be heldvirtually to celebrate the livesof the victims on 7:00 p. M. on friday, through the facebook group account -- "colchester supporting our community."it's important we come together to support our communities. I've spoken with premier mcneil,rcmp commissioner lufti and manyother nova scotians. I know that people have questions. This is an ongoing investigation, but the rcmp and local authorities will keep you updated. I want to ask the media to avoidmentioning the name and showing the picture of the person involved. Do not give him the gift of infamy. Let us instead focus all our attention on the lives we lost and the families and friends whogrieve.[speaking french] [voice of interpreter] while the pandemic will prevent us from gathering and mourning together, a virtualvigil will be held on friday at 7:00 p. M. through the facebook group colchester supporting our community. It will be an opportunity to support the lives of these victims and be there for their families and their loved ones. I hope many of you will join with us on this occasion. As we seek to understand what happened yesterday, we must be there for each other. Since this tragedy i've had discussions with premier mcneil,the rcmp commissioner brenda lucki, the minister of public safety bill blair, our nova scotia caucus, among other people. We will continue to work together on this issue. I know people have questions. The investigation is still underway, but I can assure you the rcmp and local authorities will make you aware of latest developments. I'm also asking the media not touse the name or photos of the person behind these terrible actions. Let's not give him this gift, but focus instead on the victimsand the loved ones.[end of translation] I want to address the kids in nova scotia and right across the country. I know the world can seem like amean and ugly place right now, but there is a whole lot of goodin the world too. You'll see it in your neighboursand in canadians in the days, weeks, and months ahead. This is a difficult time and it can be a scary time too, but we're here for you and we're going to get through this together. I promise.

[SPEAKING FRENCH].
