**Rosemary**:
That is the Prime Minister of canada speaking tocanadians on a daily update inthe government's fight againstcovid-19. Another hugeamount of money to helpdifferent canadians in differentsectors in this country. And i'll bring in vassy kapelosand salimah shivji to muddlethrough what we heard there,because there's a lot of it, andwe're waiting for a federalbriefing as well. Let me just say this part thatquÉbec did ask for additionalhelp from the federal governmentand that has now been negotiatedand confirms that 125 canadianforces members are on their wayto help at long-term carecentres, presumably, to do someof the additional work thatdoctors and the nurses and aideworkers can't do. And they could be there as earlyas this afternoon. So that is significant. But there's just an astoundingamount of money flowing fromfederal coffers right now andi'll say this, that we gotupdated numbers on the cerb,$7 billion so far $25 billionfederal loan programme, the$71 billion wage subsidy. And now today on top of this,vassy, what parts stood out toyou there as highly significant. Oil and gas is probably what youwant to talk about.

**Reporter**:
I will, if youdon't mind, rosie, zero in onoil and gas. Because as we had discussedprior to this, there's aheightened need for help in thissector, especially for workerswho have been laid off with thedouble whammy of covid-19 andits consequences and then also aprice war that emerged betweensaudi arabia and russia. The announcement from the Prime Minister today somewhatanticipated and geared towardscleaning up what are known asorphan wells in both Alberta andSaskatchewan. I think that b. C. as well.$1. 7 billion directed towardsthat, that the government saysthat will help to maintain 5,200 jobs. And they have an emissionreduction fund and combiningthat and that will gospecifically towardsNewfoundland and Labrador, butcombining that with the wellsannouncement, that saves ormaintains is the word that theyused about 10,000 jobs. On the orphan wells just toexplain -- basically this is abig problem in Alberta. And it has actually been fordecades. Usually an oil company willcome, drill on someone's land. In Alberta you have rights toyour land but not to theminerals and the resourcesunderneath them. If that company goes broke, whatended up happening is that manyof the wells then sit thereunclaimed. They're not remediated andcleaned up and thousands of suchwells exist in Alberta rightnow. The provincial government hasput some money towards it. The industry has put a littlebit of money towards it. But this by far is the biggestchunk of change that has beendirected towards that. I would highlight one finalthing and that is on the secondpart of what was being asked forby the province of Albertaspecifically -- more liquidityfor oil producers. The Prime Minister said thatthey're going to be working withthe bbc, the development banksand the e. D.c., to offer morecredit to small and medium-sizedoil companies. But he did not offer anyspecifics about how much moneythey would be using and if itwould be, in fact, to backstopthose loans. I think that the hint they couldtake from that is not for bigoil companies. So that addresses some of thecriticism that the government isbound to receive that they arein a way subsidizing industry. Obviously, with environmentalconcerns that is sort of avulnerability for them. I think that is aimed ataddressing that possiblecriticism. I just don't know what thatbackstop means, what thatliquidity looks like and therewere no details offered today.

**Rosemary**:
I would say thatboth of those measures soundinteresting and we'll have to goto the press conference -- bothof the measures, while they werehelping the gas and oilindustry, they also haveenvironmental components to tryto move the government's agendaforward on those components. Salimah, i'll have you talk tothat if this press conferencewraps up because it might never. Thank you both. And let's go now to the pressconference with the ministers. This is the deputy Prime Minister.

**The Hon. ChyrstiaFREELAND**:
(voice oftranslator): navdeep bains whois joining us remotely as well. Also with us is the deputy chiefpublic health officer,[speaking french](voice of translator):dr. Howard njoo is with us andready to answer your questions.[end of translation]dr. Tam, please.

**HELLO, EVERYONE.I'LL BEGIN WITH OUR USUAL UPDATEON THE NUMBER OF COVID-19 CASESIN CANADA.THERE ARE NOW 31,407 CASES,INCLUDING 1,250 DEATHS.FOR THE LAB TESTING WE'VECOMPLETED TESTS FOR OVER 503,000PEOPLE WITH 6% CONFIRMEDPOSITIVE.WITH THE RECENT SLOWDOWN IN THEEPIDEMIC GROWTH, CASE COUNTS ARENOT CLIMBING AS RAPIDLY, HOWEVER, DUE TO THE DISEASE,DEATHS HAVE CLIMBED AS COVID-19TAKES A DEVASTATING TOLL.IT CREATES A BIT OF A PARADOX.WHERE EARLY IN AN EPIDEMIC WESEE A RAPID GROWTH OF INFECTIONSAND NOT SO WITH DEATH.AS THE INFECTIONS SLOW, THEDEATHS GO TO A FASTER PACE.THAT'S WHY THE DEATHS CAN BEUNDERESTIMATED.BUT THERE'S OTHER REASONS SUCHAS WHEN COVID-19 EPIDEMIC ISINTRODUCED INTO SETTINGS WHERETHERE'S MANY OLDER ANDVULNERABLE PEOPLE.I CANNOT STRESS ENOUGH HOWIMPORTANT IT IS TO PROTECT THESEVULNERABLE SETTINGS AND PEOPLE.THIS IS A LONG-STANDING PROBLEM,BUT IT IS NOW INCUMBENT UPON USTO SOLVE IT BY ADDRESSING ALLWEAK POINTS IN OUR SYSTEM.[Speaking French](Voice of Translator)**:
Tomeasure our progress we musttake into account the evolutionof covid-19 in canada. The nature and the intensity ofspread depends on where you arein the country. Although our four largestprovinces continue to report thebulk of cases in canada, thehighest case numbers have beencoming out of quÉbec and Ontariorecently. That is an important juncture inthe intense public healthefforts that are needed to stampout the existing outbreaks,prevent new outbreaks, and traceand manage chains oftransmission in the community. To get this done withoutslipping backwards, allcanadians need to continue tostay home and to practisephysical distancing.[end of translation]the covid-19 outbreak in canadato be aware of as we measure ourprogress is a differentcharacter and intensity ofspread, depending where you arein the country. Although our four largestprovinces continue to report thebulk of cases in canada, thehighest case numbers have beencoming out of quÉbec and Ontariorecently. At this important juncture theintense public health effortsare needed to stamp out theexisting outbreaks, prevent newoutbreaks, and trace and managethe chains of transmission inthe community. To get this done withoutslipping backwards, allcanadians need to continue tostay at home and to practisephysical distancing. And for news of when and how wemight get into an easing ofthese strict public healthmeasures, some areas willexperience the epidemic slowdownearlier than others, but nomatter where you are in thecountry we've got to rememberthat canadians are highlysusceptible to the virus unlesswe all remain diligent in mainmaintaining our new habits ofphysical distancing and hygiene,new outbreaks can be sparkedanywhere, at any time. So remember this is not asprint, it is a marathon and itwill only be unpleasantsurprises if we quit early. Thank you.

OKAY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH,DR. TAM.AND NOW WE'LL HEAR FROM OURMINISTER OF FINANCE BILLMORNEAU.BILL, PLEASE.

The Hon. Bill Morneau:WELL, THANK YOU VERY MUCH,CHRYSTIA.IT'S GOOD TO BE HERE, EVENREMOTELY TODAY.I THINK THAT AS YOU KNOW AND ASCANADIANS KNOW THAT WE'VE BEENVERY FOCUSED ON SUPPORTINGPEOPLE THROUGH THE COURSE OF ALLOF THE INITIATIVES THAT WE HAVETAKEN ON AN ECONOMIC FRONT.AND TODAY IS PARTICULARLYIMPORTANT IN THAT REGARD.YOU'VE SEEN US PUT FORWARD WAYSTO SUPPORT PEOPLE AT THE CANADAEMERGENCY RESPONSE BENEFIT ANDTHE CANADA EMERGENCY WAGESUBSIDY.WE KNOW THAT SOME ORGINISATIONSHAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO FULLY GETACCESS TO THOSE PROGRAMMES,INCLUDING THE BUSINESS ACCOUNTFOR SMALL BUSINESSES.SO TODAY WE'RE ANNOUNCING ASIGNIFICANT FUNDING TO HELPTHOSE SMALL BUSINESSES IN THERURAL COMMUNITIES IN PARTICULARTHAT MIGHT NOT GET ACCESS TO THECANADA EMERGENCY BUSINESSACCOUNT OR MAY NOT BE ELIGIBLEFOR THE CANADA EMERGENCY WAGESUBSIDY.WE ALSO KNOW THAT AMONG THEPLACES HARDEST HIT IN OURCOUNTRY ARE THE CULTURAL SECTOR,THE ARTS AND THE CULTURE AND THESPORTS SECTOR.[Speaking French]

**Rosemary**:
That is our dailybriefing here on cbc. If you want to continue watchinggo to cbc. Ca or continuewatching us on cbc news network. We will be back here most likelytomorrow. I'm rosemary barton. Thank you for watching.(♪♪♪)

**Rosemary**:
I'm rosemarybarton and you're watching cbcnews network or cbc. Ca streamingaround the world. Let's go back to financeminister bill morneau.

**The Hon. Bill Morneau**:
Thatwould go through heritage canadathat my colleague will betalking about. And we know that there are manystart-up companies, companiesthat are just getting going,that might not be able to haveaccess to the canada emergencywage subsidy or the emergencybusiness account so we'reputting money in that regard aswell towards those firms. I know that my colleague navdeepbains will be talking aboutthat. We also recognize that there's areal importance to supportingjobs in parts of our countrythat have been particularly hardhit. In Alberta and Saskatchewan andin Newfoundland and Labrador. So i'm very pleased to talkabout some initiatives todaythat will support people inthose regions, in particular inthe energy sector. We have importantly a programmewhere we're going to providesupport for Alberta and inSaskatchewan and in britishcolumbia for the remediation oforphaned wells, orphan oilwells. And abandoned oil wells. So we'll be putting this fundingforth to the oil wellsassociation in Alberta andtogether with the government inAlberta and Saskatchewan andBritish Columbia, supportingabandoned wells, so that we cancreate employment and also dealwith an environmental problem. We're also moving forward onproviding $750 million in loansto companies -- Alberta andSaskatchewan and newfoundlandand labrador -- to reduce theirmethane emissions. So it's going to create jobs. At the same time it allows us toreduce our environmentalsituation. So we're trying to make surethat we're putting moneysomewhere that it will have thebiggest impact both today andover the long term. Finally, what we know is soimportant to -- especially tofirms in the energy sector -- isthey need access to credit. So we're very pleased today totalk about credit on acommercial basis for mid-sizedfirms in the energy sector tohelp them to bridge through areally difficult time and to beable to support their business,but also to support theiremployees. So from that perspective, whatwe're announcing today is verymuch important for jobs,supporting people across thecountry, that might not getaccess to the programmes that wehave announced. And helping people in particularin the energy sector to havesupport so they can have jobs orcreate jobs that will be veryhelpful to places that areparticularly hard hit. And so with that, chrystia, i'llsay thank you, and I lookforward if there's any questionslater.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH, BILL.NOW WE'LL HEAR FROM OUR MINISTEROF NATURAL RESOURCES, SEAMUSO'REGAN, SEAMUS, PLEASE.WE CAN'T HEAR SEAMUS.SEAMUS, WE CAN'T HEAR YOU.HAVE YOU TURNED ON --

IT'S ON.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:PERFECT, WE CAN HEAR YOU NOW.

EVERY TIME, EVERY TIME.THANK YOU.SO EVERY DAY OVER THE PAST FEWWEEKS I HAVE BEEN LISTENING TOWORKERS AND BUSINESS OWNERS ANDTHE INDUSTRY LEADERS IN THEENERGY SECTOR AND LIVING HERE INNEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR I KNOWFIRSTHAND HOW HARD CANADA'SPETROLEUM INDUSTRY HAS BEEN HIT.CANADA IS THE FOURTH LARGESTPRODUCER OF OIL IN THE WORLD.IT IS AN INDUSTRY THAT EMPLOYSOVER 576,000 CANADIANS FROMRIGHT ACROSS THE COUNTRY,INCLUDING 11,000 INDIGENOUSWORKERS.IT IS AN INDUSTRY MADE UP OFMORE THAN 4,500 BUSINESSES, THEVAST MAJORITY OF WHICH ARE SMALLAND MEDIUM-SIZED.IT'S AN INDUSTRY FACING NOT ONEBUT TWO CRISES -- THE IMPANTS OFCOVID-19 AND THE SUBSEQUENT DROPOF GLOBAL DEMAND OF 30% TO 35%AND THE IMPACTS OF A PRICE WARBETWEEN RUSSIA AND SAUDI ARABIATHAT FLOODED THE MARKET WITHUNDERPRICED PRODUCT.MANY OF THE MEASURES THAT WEHAVE ALREADY ANNOUNCED AREHELPING ENERGY COMPANIES ANDTHEIR WORKERS, INCLUDING THECANADA EMERGENCY BUSINESSACCOUNT, AND THE CANADAEMERGENCY WAGE SUBSIDY.INTERNATIONALLY WE'RE WORKINGWITH THE G20, THE INTERNATIONALENERGY AGENCY, AND OUR U.S.PARTNERS, TO BRING PRICESTABILITY TO THE OIL MARKET.TODAY AS BILL POINTED OUT WE'REDOING MORE.OUR GOAL HERE IS TWOFOLD.FIRST, IT ADDRESSES THESHORT-TERM LIQUIDITY NEEDS OFTHESE COMPANIES.THIS IS BOTH INDUSTRY ANDLABOUR, AND THEY HAVE TOLD ME ISTHEIR MOST IMMEDIATE PRIORITY.FIRMS WILL BE ABLE TO STAYAFLOAT FOR WORKERS TO HAVE JOBSTO COME BACK TO.SECONDLY, TO SUPPORT THE ENERGYSECTOR'S TRANSITION TO NET-ZEROWE'RE PROVIDING FUNDING IN TWOAREAS -- CLEANING UP ORPHANEDAND INACTIVE WELLS AND REDUCINGGREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS.ORPHAN AND INACTIVE WELL CLEANUPOFFERS AN OPPORTUNITY TO PUT OURHIGHLY-SKILLED PEOPLE TO WORKRIGHT AWAY.IN ADDITION, NATURAL RESOURCESCANADA WILL PROVIDE $750 MILLIONTO HELP COMPANIES INVEST INTECHNOLOGIES THAT WILL HELP THEMTO REDUCE THEIR METHANEEMISSIONS.AND $75 MILLION OF THIS FUNDINGIS PARTICULARLY EARMARKED FORCAPITAL INVESTMENT AND RESEARCHGEARED TOWARDS EMISSIONREDUCTIONS IN THE OFFSHOREENERGY SECTOR TO MAKE THENEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADORINDUSTRY EVEN MORE COMPETITIVEINTERNATIONALLY.AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORKOVER THE WEEKS AHEAD IN OTHERWAYS THAT WE CAN MAINTAIN OURWORKFORCE AND MAKE THEM MORECOMPETITIVE INTERNATIONALLY.THANK YOU, MERCI.BACK TO YOU, CHRYSTIA.

**The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:THANK YOU, SEAMUS.[Speaking French](Voice of Translator)**:
We'llnow go to stephen guilbeault.

**(Voice of Translator)**:
I'dlike to ask you what are youdoing during physicaldistancing?watching the news, watching amovie, tv?reading a good book?looking at a virtual exhibit?[end of translation]our favourite athletes whoinspire us to get involved insports.[speaking french](voice of translator): thegovernment is very proud toprovide assistance to thesectors. We stand behind those who areusing their passion and theirwork to liven our lives.[end of translation]$100 million to establish acovid-19 emergency support fundfor cultural, heritage andsports orginisations.[speaking french](voice of translator): thegovernment will provide$500 million for orginisationsin culture, heritage andsupport.[end of translation]the targeted measure willprovide financial support thatis consistent with the existingcovid-19 support members forwage and fixed costs fororginisations. It will be administered bycanadian heritage with thesupport of many partners such asthe canada council for the arts.[speaking french](voice of translator):minister guilbeault. We'll be working with the sectorto fine-tune this aid. We are doing our utmost torespond to your concerns, yourmost pressing concerns, toensure your survival, stability,and to let canadians continue tohave access to cultural contentand sports, which are the bestin the world.[end of translation]canada day this year will behosted virtually.[speaking french](voice of translator):minister guilbeault. Together in a virtualenvironment, we will celebrateour strength and resilience aswell as our values at canadaday. Our creators and athletes areproviding us with a number ofexamples of inspiration andsolidarity.[end of translation]we are reminded each day howfortunate we are to have suchtalent here in canada. Merci.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:MERCI, STEVEN.WE'LL NOW GO TO MINISTER JOLY.MINISTER JOLY?

**(Voice of Translator)**:
Inrecent weeks I had anopportunity to have discussionswith a number of heads ofchambers of commerce across thecountry, to montrÉal, quÉbec,moncton and edmonton. What they've all said is thatthis crisis is hitting themhard. They've shared their concernswith me, their realities, theiranxiety, and we have heard themessage. Our objective today inconjunction with the minister offinance, is to protect ourstreets, our small communities. We are doubling the budget ofour economic developmentagencies across the country, soessentially $1 billion inadditional funding will go tothese development agenciesacross the country. Be it in the east, the middle ofcanada, the west or the north. What we've heard is that accessto financial institutions isoftentimes more difficult, soour objective is this -- we wantto prevent entrepreneurs fromfalling through the cracks whenthey have critical roles to playin their communities. Through our development andcommunity futures orginisations,which do excellent work on theground, we will be in a positionto help companies to have accessto various government measuresto help them to make it throughthe crisis. The development agencies incanada work locally and bringthe government into thecommunities and defend theeconomic reality there. It's also responsible forhelping during crises. As it has in the past in fortmcmurray, for example, duringthe fires.[end of translation]we have discussions withbusiness owners via differentchambers of commerce from surreyto charlottetown and, of course,saskatoon and st. John's. And we know the crisis ishitting hard. We heard many of the businessowners' anxieties andpreoccupations and we are --we've heard -- our mainobjective today is to make surethat we protect our main streetsall across the country. This is why we're answering thecall by nearly doubling thebudget of our different regionaldevelopment agencies across thiscountry, from atlantic canada toquÉbec, Ontario, the west andnorthern territories. The idea is to provide tobusinesses, to support thebusinesses that may be fallingthrough the cracks and areplaying vital roles within theircommunities. We're doing also another thingby making sure that we'reincreasing the budget of ourorginisations that are key toour local businesses and the aimis to make sure that we supportthem while they're doing greatwork on the ground. So the mission of the agenciesis to make sure that the eyesand the ears of the federalgovernment are on the ground,and they're always there intimes of crisis, to deal withmaybe the fort mcmurray firesor the lac-megantic tragedy. So what we're saying to businessowners today across this countryis that we've got your back.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH,MELANIE.AND NOW OUR MINISTER OFINNOVATION AND SCIENCE ANDINDUSTRY NAVDEEP BAINS, NOW,PLEASE.

THANK YOU VERY MUCH,CHRYSTIA.IN EVERY INDUSTRY AND SECTOR,COMPANIES ARE STEPPING UP TOLEND A HAND WHEREVER POSSIBLE.[Speaking French](Voice of Translator):MINISTER BAINS.COMPANIES ARE COMING AND HELPINGPEOPLE AS MUCH AS THEY CAN.[end of translation]CANADIAN BUSINESSES AND HIGHLYSKILLED INNOVATORS THAT WE WILLHELP IN THIS PERIOD OFUNCERTAINTY.YOU KNOW, DURING THE NORMALCOURSE OF THINGS, ONE OF THEIMPORTANT ROLES OF GOVERNMENT ISPROVIDING ECONOMIC SUPPORT TOHIGH POTENTIAL INNOVATIVE FIRMSIN THE EARLY STAGES OFDEVELOPMENT.ESPECIALLY IN A COUNTRY LIKECANADA WHERE SCIENCE ANDINNOVATION ARE OUR STRENGTHS.TIME AND TIME AGAIN WE'VEINNOVATED SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZEDCOMPANIES TO BECOME KEY ECONOMICDRIVERS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH INGOOD QUALITY JOBS FOR ALLCANADIANS.WE SOMETIMES CALL THEM THEFUTURE GAZELLES OF CANADA'SECONOMY.SINCE THEY END UP PUTTING CANADALEAPS AND BOUNDS AHEAD OF THECOMPETITION.NOW GOVERNMENT IS IN A UNIQUEPOSITION OF BEING ABLE TOPROTECT THESE IMPORTANTCOMPANIES AND THE HIGHLY SKILLEDPEOPLE THEY EMPLOY THROUGH THENATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCILSINDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ASSISTANCEPROGRAMME.CALLED IRAP.THESE INNOVATIVE COMPANIESCONTRIBUTE DISPROPORTIONATELYMORE TO THE SUCCESS OF THECANADIAN ECONOMY.BUT RIGHT NOW MANY ARE FACINGREAL CHALLENGES BECAUSE OF THEECONOMIC DOWNTURN RESULTING FROMCOVID-19.THEY'RE LOOKING AT SUPPLY CHAINDISRUPTIONS, CASH FLOW ISSUES, ACOLLAPSE IN DEMAND, AND,THEREFORE, AN INABILITY TOMAINTAIN STAFF TO PERFORMRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.AND WE'VE HEARD FROM THESTART-UP COMMUNITY THAT SOME OFTHESE EARLY STAGE FIRM DOES NOTQUALIFY FOR THE WAGE SUBSIDY ORBUSINESS LIQUIDITY MEASURES THATWE ANNOUNCED.WE'VE HEARD THE CALL FOR HELPFROM THE CANADIAN BUSINESSCOMMUNITY.AND TODAY WE'RE ANSWERING IT BYINJECTING $250 MILLION INTO THEINDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ASSISTANCEPROGRAMME.THIS IS AN INVESTMENT TO PROTECTCANADA'S HIGHLY SKILLEDINNOVATORS.THIS SUPPORT WILL BE TARGETED TOCOMPANIES IDENTIFIED ASSTRATEGIC TO THE CANADIANECONOMY, IMPACTED BY COVID-19.WHETHER THEY ARE PRE-REVENUE ORNOT.[Speaking French](Voice of Translator):MINISTER BAINS.THIS ASSISTANCE WILL HELPSTRATEGIC COMPANIES.[end of translation]I ENCOURAGE ANY TECHNOLOGY ORINNOVATION-BASED BUSINESS THATIS UNABLE TO ACCESS THE CURRENTSUPPORT MEASURES TO GO ON TO THENATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL'SWEBSITE TODAY.AND THEY'LL BE ABLE TO SIGN UPTO BE NOTIFIED WHEN THEAPPLICATION OPENS UP EARLY NEXTWEEK.WITH TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT WEEXPECT TO SUPPORT OVER 1,000CANADIAN INNOVATIVE FIRMS ANDMAINTAIN 10,000 CANADIAN JOBSOVER THE NEXT THREE MONTHS.FUNDING WILL BEGIN TO BEDELIVERED WITHIN A MATTER OFDAYS.WHEN WE SUPPORT EARLY STAGEFIRMS, WE'RE NOT ONLY PROTECTINGTHE NEXT GENERATION OF CANADIANENTREPRENEURS, BUT ALSO THEPEOPLE THEY EMPLOY.AND WE MAKE SURE THAT CANADA'SBEST TECHNOLOGY AND RESEARCHSTAYS IN CANADA.THANK YOU.MERCI.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:THANK YOU VERY MUCH, NAV.AND WE'RE NOW READY TO TAKE YOURQUESTIONS.

THANK YOU, DEPUTY PRIMEMINISTER.SO WE'LL START WITH THREEQUESTIONS ON THE PHONE AND TURNTO THE ONE, AND ONE QUESTION ANDONE FOLLOW-UP.[Speaking French]

---

**Question**:
Thank you. Merci. Our first question... fromradio-canada. Please go ahead.

---

**Question**:
(voice oftranslator): journalist. Mr. Guilbeault, can you give usmore details on the assistancethat you'll provide to thecultural and the sportsindustries, who will the moneygo to?how will it assist?go to the sports associations?to the athletes morespecifically?

(Voice of Translator):ANSWER.THANK YOU, MADAM.THE FUNDING GOES TO THEORGINISATIONS.OUR SECTOR IS DIFFERENT IN THATIT IS BASED -- OR MADE UP OF,RATHER, OF PEOPLE WHO AREINDEPENDENT WORKERS.SO THEY'RE NOT EMPLOYEES.FOR WHOM THE WAGE SUBSIDY WOULDHAVE APPLIED.SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUTNOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGINISATIONS,SPORTS ORGINISATIONS AT THENATIONAL LEVEL, SPORTS CENTRES,MEDIA ORGINISATIONS, EDITORS,COMPANIES, TV COMPANIES, MUSICGROUPS.AND THE PROGRAMMES THAT WE HAVEALREADY ANNOUNCED WEREN'TTAILORED FOR THEM AND DIDN'TTAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE SPECIFICNATURE OF THE ARTS AND CULTUREAND SPORTING SECTOR.

[Speaking French]

---

**Question**:
(voice oftranslator): follow-upquestion. Minister joly, can you tell us alittle bit more about theannouncement that you've made. You have talked aboutmunicipalities in various townsand villages across the country. There are companies there, arethose companies not eligible forthe programmes that you'veannounced?and pwhat type of assistancewill you be offering.

(Voice of Translator):ANSWER.WHAT WE HAVE OFFERED THROUGHGOVERNMENT MEASURES RECENTLY AREA SAFETY NET.AND WHAT WE'RE DOING NOW ISENSURING THAT NO ONE IS FALLINGTHROUGH THE CRACKS.SO WE'RE TIGHTENING IT UP.WE KNOW, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT THE$40,000 LOAN AND THE WAGESUBSIDY HAVE IMPACTS FOR MANYCOMPANIES.THERE ARE SOME THAT STILL DON'THAVE ACCESS TO THAT FUNDING.SO THE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENTAGENCIES WILL BE PROVIDINGASSISTANCE.THE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY INQUÉBEC, FOR EXAMPLE, IT'S CALLEDDECK, AND THESE AGENCIES PROVIDEASSISTANCE IN SMALLERCOMMUNITIES IN QUÉBEC, FOREXAMPLE, AND ACROSS THE COUNTRY.SO THEY'RE ON THE GROUND ANDTHEY WILL BE HELPING TO PROVIDEASSISTANCE TO SMALL LOCALBUSINESSES IN THOSE AREAS.

(Voice of Translator):THANK YOU, MINISTER.

OUR NEXT QUESTION [SpeakingFrench]TERESA WRIGHT WITH CANADIANPRESS.PLEASE GO AHEAD.[Speaking French]

---

**Question**:
Good morning. Dr. Tam, i'm wondering if youcould tell us if there's anyguidance for health workers anddoctors on how ventilatorsshould be rationed, if it comesto that. And if anyone is working on anysuch guidelines?

YES, SO THIS ALLOCATION OFTHE SUPPLIES HAS A DIFFERENTFRAMEWORK AND THAT'S INCOLLABORATION WITH THE PROVINCESAND THE TERRITORIES IN TERMS OFTHE SUPPLIES OF VENTILATORS THATWE HAVE.NOW ON THE GROUND, PHYSICIANSAND OTHER HEALTH WORKERS HAVE TOMAKE SOME VERY DIFFICULTDECISIONS SOMETIMES IF THERE WASNOT ENOUGH VENTILATORS OR I.C.U.BEDS.SO THOSE GUIDANCES HAVE BEEN PUTIN PLACE AT THE PROVINCIAL ANDTHE TERRITORIAL LEVEL.AND, CERTAINLY, THAT FLOWS DOWNTO THE HOSPITAL LEVEL.SO THAT YOU HAVE THESE ANDTHEY'RE DRAFTED BY A BROAD RANGEOF EXPERTS, INCLUDING ETHICISTSAND CLINICAL AND I.C.U. ANDOTHER EXPERTS AND HEALTH SYSTEMEXPERTS, SO THAT THOSE DIFFICULTDECISIONS CAN BE FACILITATED ATTHE TIME THAT THEY'RE NEEDED.

FOLLOW-UP?

---

**Question**:
Yes, and myfollow-up question is forminister morneau. Many people on social assistanceprogrammes are surviving on lessthan people getting the cerb. And many marginalized canadiansjust can't access it. So rather than continue to tweakit as you have been doing, whynot just make the cerbuniversal?

The Hon. Bill Morneau:WELL, THANK YOU FOR THEQUESTION.I THINK THAT IT'S IMPORTANT TOACKNOWLEDGE THAT THERE ARECERTAINLY PEOPLE WHO AREEXPERIENCING REAL CHALLENGES.WE UNDERSTAND THAT.WHAT WE'VE BEEN TRYING TO DOTHROUGH THE COURSE OF THISCRISIS PERIOD IS TO ADDRESS THEPEOPLE WHO HAVE LOST THEIRINCOME, WHO HAVE LOST THEIRABILITY TO CONTINUE TO LEAD THELIFE THEY WERE LEADING BEFORETHE CRISIS AS A RESULT OFCOVID-19.SO THAT'S HOW WE'VE DIRECTED OURATTENTION.THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT IT'SIMPACTING THE MEASURES THAT WEHAVE PUT FORWARD ARE REALLYHAVING A BIG IMPACT.AS YOU KNOW WE HAVE SEENLITERALLY MILLIONS, MORE THANFIVE MILLION PEOPLE, COME ON THECANADA EMERGENCY RESPONSEBENEFIT.WE AS OF YESTERDAY HAD MORE THAN220,000 SMALL FIRMS THAT APPLIEDFOR THE CANADA EMERGENCYBUSINESS ACCOUNT.SO THE MEASURES THAT WE'RETAKING ARE HAVING VERY, VERYWIDE APPLICATION.AS YOU SEE TODAY WE'RE TRYING TOMAKE SURE THAT FOR PLACESWHERE -- IN PARTICULAR FORBUSINESSES THAT EMPLOY PEOPLEWHERE THEY NEED ADDITIONALSUPPORT, WE'RE COMING FORWARD TOMAKE SURE THAT WE PROVIDE THATSUPPORT.

THANK YOU, MINISTER.OPERATOR, NEXT QUESTION, PLEASE.

THANK YOU.MERCI.OUR NEXT QUESTION, [SpeakingFrench]PLEASE GO AHEAD.

---

**Question**:
(voice oftranslator): journalist. I'm not sure who to put myquestion to, but anyone cananswer it. It deals with soldiers beingsent in to help out in quÉbec. In the "maclean's" article, adoctor who served in the forcestalked about some 2,500 soldierswho are trained that could beavailable but there's a problemwith respect to theirqualifications in quÉbec and inOntario. Is there some way to make anexception so that more than --these particular soldiers can beused to provide assistance?

**The Hon. ChyrstiaFREELAND**:
(voice oftranslator): minister freeland,answer. The decision to respond toquÉbec's request that went tothe Prime Minister is animportant one. It's a decision that was made inclose cooperation with quÉbec,the canadian forces, theminister of public safety, theminister of health, the ministerof defence. We worked hard to identify thenecessary people with thelanguage skills, the trainingrequired, to help in quÉbec. We identified 125 people and adecision was made in conjunctionwith quÉbec. And these people will make adifference. With respect to providingadditional assistance, wecontinue to hold ongoingdiscussions with quÉbec. We are working with quÉbec tosupport the province. I'd also like to add that thePrime Minister has stated thatwe will be working with the redcross and we'll also help inquÉbec. And then there are the volunteers who have registered,so we'll also be working withthat list of people to identifythose who can help. Thank you.

(Voice of Translator):FOLLOW-UP QUESTION.WHAT ABOUT THE VOLUNTEERS?CAN YOU GIVE US AN IDEA OF HOWMANY MORE PEOPLE COULD BE SENTTO QUÉBEC FROM THE RED CROSSTHEN?AND FROM THAT LIST OF VOLUNTEERS.

**The Hon. ChyrstiaFREELAND**:
(voice oftranslator): answer, ministerfreeland. At this point, no. What I do want to underscore isthat it is essential to work inclose cooperation with theprovince. We are doing this work togetherand i'd also like to assurequÉbecers that we fullyunderstand the urgency of thesituation. And we are working very hard tofind the resources to helpquÉbecers.

THANK YOU, MINISTER.STARTING WITH DAVID THURTON,CBC.

---

**Question**:
The woes in the oiland gas sector isn't going awayanytime soon, so some people areprobably wondering if there'sgoing to be anymore help on theway?and can you maybe walk usthrough the range of things thatyou're thinking of, ministermorneau, minister regan?

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:I'M GOING TO -- JUST BECAUSEWITH ALL OF THE PEOPLE ON THESCREENS IT REQUIRES A BIT OFTRAFFIC ACTIVITY.SO I'M GOING TO TURN TO SEAMUSFIRST, IS THAT OKAY, DAVID?

---

**Question**:
That's fine.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, SEAMUS, PLEASE.YOU NEED TO TURN YOUR MIKE BACKON.

A LOT OF WHAT BILL HASALREADY PUT IN PLACE HAS A VERYPOSITIVE EFFECT WITH THE CERBAND WITH THE WAGE SUBSIDYPARTICULARLY.I MEAN, WHAT WE'RE ANNOUNCINGTODAY ARE VERY PARTICULARINITIATIVES.FIRSTLY, WHAT I'VE HEARD FROMALL SIDES, WHETHER IT BE --WHETHER IT BE LABOUR OR WHETHERIT BE INDUSTRY, EVERYBODY ISTALKED ABOUT LIQUIDITY.I REMEMBER MY FIRST MEETINGAFTER THE LOCKDOWN WITH THEPETROLEUM PRODUCERS AND SAYINGTHAT THEIR TOP FIVE PRIORITIESWERE LIQUIDITY, LIQUIDITY,LIQUIDITY, LIQUIDITY.WE HEARD THE SAME FROM WORKERS.SO THIS IS, YOU KNOW, REALLYIMPORTANT FOR SMALL TOMEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES.I THINK THAT THERE'S APERCEPTION THAT THE INDUSTRY ISDOMINATED BY MASSIVE CAPITALPROJECTS, BIG OIL RIGS, MILES OFPIPELINE.IN FACT, IT'S DOMINATED BY SMALLTO MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES ANDTHAT'S ROUGHLY ABOUT 85% OF THEWORKFORCE IS.AND SO CONCENTRATING ON THEMRIGHT NOW IS A VERY GOOD THING.I'LL SEND THE REST OVER TO BILL.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, BILL.

The Hon. Bill Morneau:REALLY I THINK THAT SEAMUS GAVEA GOOD INDICATION.AND WRIT LARGE ACROSS THECOUNTRY WHAT WE'RE SEEING ISTHAT THERE ARE BUSINESSES ACROSSTHE COUNTRY THAT NEED ACCESS TOCREDIT DURING A CHALLENGINGTIME.WHAT WE'RE ANNOUNCING TODAY ISTHAT THE ENERGY SECTOR ISPARTICULARLY CHALLENGED, ANDTHAT'S WHY THAT IS SO IMPORTANT.THE OTHER INITIATIVES THAT WEHAVE PUT IN PLACE TODAY -- THEABILITY TO REMEDIATE ORPHANEDWELLS AND ABANDONED WELLS, TOREDUCE OUR METHANE EMISSIONS,THESE ARE GOING TO GET PEOPLEWORKING.IT'S ABOUT JOBS IN PLACES WHEREWE DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO JOBS.SO I THINK THAT THIS ISCRITICALLY IMPORTANT FOR PEOPLEIN THOSE PLACES WHERE THEY'RESEEING EXTREME CHALLENGES.WE NEED TO RECOGNIZE THAT WEWILL HAVE OTHER MEASURES TOPROVIDE CREDIT ACROSSMEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES ANDLARGER BUSINESSES.AND THERE'S MORE FOR US TO TALKABOUT IN THAT REGARD IN COMINGDAYS.

---

**Question**:
Okay, thank you. And this question is from one ofmy colleagues. She's asking, we know thatcontact tracing is important inthe fight against the spread ofcovid-19. Minister bains, what discussionsare you having at the federallevel about using technology tofacilitate that?and are there any conversationsabout using cellphone data?

THANK YOU VERY MUCH, THANKYOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT QUESTION.AS WE'VE INDICATED, ALL OPTIONSARE ON THE TABLE.WE'RE GOING TO DEPLOY ALL OF THETOOLS THAT WE NEED TO MAKE SURETHAT WE PROTECT CANADIANS'HEALTH AND WELL-BEING.RIGHT NOW WE'RE FOCUSED ONECONOMIC MEASURES.WE ARE EVALUATING DIFFERENTSOLUTIONS WITH RESPECT TOPROVIDING MORE INFORMATION TOCANADIANS ON BETTER PRACTICES TOFOLLOW, SOCIAL DISTANCING,PHYSICAL DISTANCING, MAKING SURETHAT THEY TAKE THOSE APPROPRIATESTEPS TO KEEP THEMSELVES SAFE.WITH RESPECT TO CONTACT TRACINGWE'RE LOOKING AT OTHERJURISDICTIONS.WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IF WEARE MOVING FORWARD IN THAT AREATHAT WE ALSO DEAL WITH ISSUESWITH RESPECT TO PRIVACY IN AMEANINGFUL WAY.STILL EARLY STAGES AND WE HAVEENGAGED WITH A ROBUST GROUP OFPEOPLE ACROSS THE COUNTRY THATARE WORKING ON SOME EARLY STAGETECHNOLOGY PROJECTS.BUT WE HAVEN'T MADE ANY FINALDETERMINATION IN TERMS OF WHATWE WANT TO SUPPORT AND TO MOVEFORWARD WITH.BUT WE HAVE SOME CREDIBLEINNOVATIVE COMPANIES ACROSS THECOUNTRY THAT ARE STEPPING UPTHAT I ARE THINKING THROUGHTHESE CHALLENGES AND WE AREENGAGED WITH THEM.

---

**Question**:
Thank you, ministerbains. Mike?

---

**Question**:
Good morning,dr. Tam. How would you charactericize thecountry and what are thedifferences between quÉbec andthe prairies and the maritimes?

I THINK THAT THE MAJORITY OFTHE CASES AS I SAID ARE IN THEFOUR BIGGEST JURISDICTIONS,PERHAPS NOT SURPRISINGLY.AND THAT DIFFERENT VARIATIONS INTERMS OF THE ACTUALEPIDEMIOLOGY.HOWEVER, I WOULD HAVE TO SAYTHAT THE LONG-TERM CARE HOMES ORSENIORS' RESIDENCES OUTBREAKSARE IN QUITE A NUMBER OF THEMAND THAT'S WHAT IS DRIVING SOMEOF THE UNFORTUNATE INCREASE INDEATHS.SO THE BIGGER JURISDICTIONS,PARTICULARLY RIGHT NOW INONTARIO AND QUÉBEC.BUT, YEAH, I THINK THAT THEMARCH BREAK AS I SAID MIGHT HAVEHAD SOME DIFFERENT -- ADIFFERENCE IN TIMING OF SOME OFTHE EPIDEMIC TRAJECTORIES.SOME JURISDICTIONS HAVEIMPLEMENTED MEASURES AND HAVEN'TACTUALLY GOTTEN THE COMMUNITYTRANSMISSION.SO SOME OF THE SMALLERJURISDICTIONS AND THETERRITORIES, THEY'VE MANAGED TOPICK UP ALL OF THE IMPORTEDCASES AND PREVENTED ONWARDTRANSMISSION AND DID CONTACTTRACING.SO THEY'RE ACTUALLY QUITEDIFFERENT.

---

**Question**:
And this is for --well, i'll ask and see who wantsto answer. Does this suggest that there's adifferent approach that we couldtake to re-starting the country,depending what province we'redealing with?

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:THANKS FOR THE QUESTION, MIKE.AND LET ME JUST SAY THAT THEQUESTION OF -- THE ECONOMICIMPACT OF THE LOCKDOWN WASABSOLUTELY DISCUSSED AT THEFIRST MINISTERS -- ON THE FIRSTMINISTERS' CALL WITH THE PRIMEMINISTER LAST NIGHT.AND ALL OF THE PREMIERS SHAREDTHE VERY DIVERSE EXPERIENCEACROSS THE COUNTRY AND SPOKEBOTH ABOUT THE DIVERSEAPPROACHES THAT PEOPLE ARETAKING TO FIGHTING THECORONAVIRUS.AND THE CALL IS VERY USEFUL THATWAY BECAUSE PEOPLE CAN SHAREBEST PRACTISE.AND THEY SPOKE ABOUT THEDIFFERENT PLACES THAT THEY AREIN FLATTENING THE CURVE ANDABOUT HOW THAT WAS SHAPING THEIROWN VIEWS ABOUT STEPS -- NEXTSTEPS TO TAKE.WHAT I WILL SAY IS THAT WE AS ACOUNTRY, OF COURSE, WE NEED TOUNDERSTAND THAT WE ARE A HUGE,HUGE COUNTRY.AND, THEREFORE, UNDERSTANDABLYVERY, VERY DIVERSE.AS DR. TAM HAS JUST SAID.ONE THING THAT WE HAVE IN COMMONTHOUGH IS THAT EVERY SINGLECANADIAN HAS MADE A HUGESACRIFICE ALREADY IN FIGHTINGTHE CORONAVIRUS.THAT SACRIFICE IS STARTING TOPAY OFF.AS WE HEARD FROM DR. TAM EARLIERTHIS WEEK, OVERALL IN THE WHOLECOUNTRY THAT IT IS NOW POSSIBLETO BE I THINK AS DR. TAM PUT IT,EVER SO SLIGHTLY CAUTIOUSLYOPTIMISTIC THAT WE ARE ACHIEVINGSOME KIND OF FLATTENING.WHAT IS SO ESSENTIAL FOR US ALLIS NOT TO SQUANDER THATACHIEVEMENT.WE HAVE ALL PAID TOO HIGH APRICE ALREADY TO THROW IT AWAY.AND SO WHAT I CAN SAY ON BEHALFOF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ISTHAT WE BELIEVE REALLY STRONGLYTHAT WE NEED TO BE REALLY,REALLY CAREFUL, REALLYDELIBERATE, AND REALLYTHOUGHTFUL ABOUT NEXT STEPS.ABOVE ALL, LET'S REMEMBER THATWE'VE PAID A REALLY HIGH PRICEALREADY AND LET'S BE SURE THATTHE SACRIFICES THAT WE HAVE MADEARE NOT WASTED.

---

**Question**:
Good afternoon,this question is directed todeputy Prime Minister freelandand dr. Tam. With concerns about the lack oftransparency from china in thestart of this outbreak, thedeath toll in wuhan hasincreased by 50% in a recentrevision from the chineseauthorities. How has the inaccuracy of thedata and the suppression of theinformation about the outbreakin china affected canada'sresponse to this crisis?

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:I'LL LET DR. TAM START AND I'MHAPPY TO OFFER A RESPONSE ASWELL.

YEAH, I THINK THAT I'VE JUSTBEEN MADE AWARE OF THE NUMBERS.AND I THINK, YOU KNOW, I'MREALLY KEEN TO LEARN FURTHERABOUT WHAT THAT MEANS.IT'S SUCH A RAPIDLY EVOLVINGSITUATION, BUT I THINK THAT ITIS IMPORTANT GLOBALLY TOUNDERSTAND THE FULL SPECTRUM OFTHE ILLNESS.SO I THINK THAT GETTING FURTHERCLARIFICATION IS IMPORTANT.OF COURSE, YOU KNOW, WE ACTUALLYHAVE TO HAVE AN UNDERSTANDINGFROM EVERY COUNTRY AS MUCH ASPOSSIBLE SO THAT IT ACTUALLYHELPS US WITH SOME OF OURACTIONS GOING FORWARD.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:AND I WOULD JUST ADD TO THAT,THAT FIRST AND FOREMOST THE VERYDIFFICULT DECISIONS THAT WE HAVEHAD TO TAKE AS A COUNTRY INRESPONSE TO THIS GLOBAL PANDEMICARE BASED FIRST AND FOREMOST ONCANADIAN DATA.AND ON THE CANADIAN REALITY.AND THOSE ARE DECISIONS TAKEN BYCANADIAN POLITICAL LEADERSINFORMED BY THE BEST EXPERTADVICE THAT WE CAN GET.OUR PRIMARY JOB IS FIGHTING ITHERE AT HOME.AND WE MAKE OUR BATTLE PLANSBASED ON WHAT IS HAPPENING ONTHE GROUND HERE IN CANADA.OF COURSE THE ACTIONS THAT WETAKE IN CANADA ARE INFORMED BYWHAT WE ARE SEEING AROUND THEWORLD, AND WE CONSULT, INCLUDINGAT A POLITICAL LEVEL, WIDELYWITH COLLEAGUES AND PARTNERSAROUND THE WORLD.OUR MINISTER OF HEALTHPARTICIPATES IN A G7 HEALTHMINISTERS' CALL WHICH IS WEEKLY.I HAVE SPOKEN TO THE DEPUTYPRIME MINISTER OF SINGAPORE, WHOHAPPENS TO BE A FRIEND.AND I THINK THAT THE SINGAPOREANEXPERIENCE IS VERY VALUABLE FORUS.AND THEN JUST A FINAL THING THATI WOULD ADD IS THAT BECAUSE THISPANDEMIC POSES SUCH A THREAT TOOUR COUNTRY, IT IS ABSOLUTELYAPPROPRIATE FOR OUR RESPONSE TOBE INFORMED BY THE BESTINTELLIGENCE THAT WE CAN GET,AND OUR RESPONSE IS INFORMED BYCANADA'S EXCELLENT INTELLIGENCEEXPERTS WHO ARE A VERY IMPORTANTPART OF THE WORK THAT THEGOVERNMENT IS DOING AND HAVEBEEN BRIEFING THE GOVERNMENT ANDTHE MINISTERS.THEY, OF COURSE, WORK FIRST ANDFOREMOST WITH OUR CLOSESTSECURITY PARTNERS.THE FIVE EYES AND NATO AND NORADAND THE ADVICE IS INFORMED BYTHE INFORMATION SHARED ANDCOLLECTED TOGETHER BY THATCOMMUNITY.

---

**Question**:
As a follow-up. Just how is it best to moveforward with all of these thingsbeing, what you said off thecourse, the data that you'relooking at from other countries,including china, thatrelationship that you had withother countries when you'retrying to combat a globalpandemic. Are there any concerns that thechinese cooperation and the lackof access of the informationcoming out of china, you know,could have in any ways affectcanadian researchers that arecooperating with the lab inwuhan, for example?is there any concern about thatin terms of combating the spreadof this pandemic?and devising ways to stop it.

WELL, I THINK THAT GLOBALCOLLABORATION ON SCIENTIFICDISCOVERY AND RESEARCH IS REALLYIMPORTANT AND IT CAN BE IN ANYAREA LIKE DIAGNOSTICS ANDTREATMENT.SO I THINK THAT AS MUCH GLOBALCOLLABORATION AS POSSIBLE ISIMPORTANT.IN TERMS OF OUR RESEARCH, I KNOWTHAT OUR COLLEAGUES AT THECANADIAN INSTITUTE OF HEALTHRESEARCH HAD LOOKED AT THE WAYTHAT OUR GOVERNMENT PROJECT ISFUNDED IS BASED ON PEER REVIEW,AND THAT PROCESS IS INDEPENDENT.SO I THINK WE HAVE TO RELY ONTHE SCIENTIFIC PROCESSES ITSELFAS TO WHETHER THE PROJECTS AREWORTHY OF FUNDING.AND I THINK -- AND MANYPROJECTS, ACTUALLY, INVOLVE MANYCOUNTRIES.SO THERE'S QUITE A NUMBER OFPROJECTS FUNDED IN CANADA THATINVOLVES NOT JUST CHINA, BUTMULTI-COUNTRY APPROACHES.SO I THINK THAT WE'RE GOING TOGET THE SOLUTIONS FAST.YOU STILL HAVE A CONSTRUCT.BUT THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT THEYARE PEER REVIEWEDSCIENTIFICALLY, VALIDATED BEFOREFUNDING IS PROVIDED.

THANK YOU, DOCTOR.WE'LL NOW TURN BACK TO THEPHONE.OPERATOR.

THANK YOU.MERCI.OUR NEXT QUESTION [SpeakingFrench]PLEASE GO AHEAD.YOUR LINE IS NOW OPEN.

---

**Question**:
(voice oftranslator): marie kastelle. I have a question for ministerregan and morneau.[end of translation]mr. Regan, i'm worried whatfurther help could come for theoil industry?and many were asking and maybeeven expecting that thegovernment do more -- forexample, by taking equity sharesinto oil companies as thegovernment did in 2008 withautomobile companies. I'm wondering if the governmentis considering that?and, if not, why not?and minister morneau, I don'tknow if this was related tothat, but you sort of alluded tothe credit for medium-sizedbusinesses. I wonder if you could elaborateon what you were suggesting?

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:SEAMUS, IF YOU WANT TO START ANDREMEMBER TO UNMUTE YOURSELF.

IT'S OPEN AND I HAVE LEARNEDMY LESSON TWICE OVER.THANK YOU, DEPUTY PRIMEMINISTER.THE FOCUS TODAY WAS ON WORKERS.I THINK THAT IF YOU LOOK AT OURINITIATIVES IN ANY SECTOR OR ANYBENEFIT, THAT WE HAVE -- WE HAVECHANGED OVER TIME.I MEAN, BILL HAS BEEN MAKING,YOU KNOW, TWEAKS AND CHANGES TOALMOST EVERYTHING THAT WE HAVEINTRODUCED.SO NOTHING QUITE LOOKS THE SAME,BECAUSE WE'RE LISTENING TOCANADIANS AND WE'RE LISTENING TOSTAKEHOLDERS AND MAKING CHANGESWHERE IT'S NEEDED.TODAY WAS FOCUSED ON WORKERS INTWO FASHIONS.FIRST OF ALL, LIQUIDITY, TO MAKESURE THAT THE COMPANIES THATHIRE THOSE WORKERS REMAIN INTACTSO THEY CAN KEEP THOSE WORKERS.AND, SECONDLY, WITH ORPHANED ANDINACTIVE WELLS, THIS IS, YOUKNOW, TECHNICAL WORK,HIGHLY-SKILLED WORK.WE THINK THAT --

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:I DON'T THINK THAT YOU HAVEMUTED YOURSELF, BUT THETECHNOLOGY IS MUTING YOU, SEAMUS.LET'S PAUSE FOR A MOMENT.OKAY, I'M SORRY, SEAMUS, WECAN'T HEAR YOU HERE.MAYBE TRY AGAIN.YOU SAID HIGHLY-SKILLED WORKERS,THAT WAS THE LAST PHRASE THAT WEHEARD.

IN SPEAKING ABOUT ORPHAN ANDINACTIVE WELLS, YES.THESE ARE HIGHLY-SKILLEDWORKERS, YOU KNOW, THAT WE THINKTHAT CAN EMPLOY UPWARDS OF 5,000PEOPLE AND GETTING THEM WORKINGRIGHT AWAY BECAUSE THEY'REALREADY DEEMED TO BE ESSENTIALWORKERS.IT HAS THE ADDED BENEFIT,OBVIOUSLY, AND AN ENVIRONMENTALBENEFIT IN CLEANING UP THESEWELLS.SO IT'S IN KEEPING WITH OURENVIRONMENTAL PRIORITIES AND OURCOMMITMENT TO NET ZERO.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, THANK YOU.AND MAYBE NOW, BILL, WOULD YOULIKE TO ANSWER THE PART OF THEQUESTION DIRECTED AT YOU ANDCOULD YOU -- THERE WE GO.WE SEE YOU NOW.

**The Hon. Bill Morneau**:
Thekey -- the key thing that we'veheard from businesses across thecountry really is that they needaccess to credit. We've got a particular challengewhere businesses are either notoperating or operating withsignificantly less revenue for aperiod of time. And they need credit to getthrough that time. So that's why we've come forwardwith today and it is soappropriate for businesses. Businesses don't want governmenttaking equity in their business. They want to find a way they cancontinue in their businessoperations so they can continueto have the opportunities, bothfor their people and for theirorginisation that they'reseeking. We have been working together asseamus said with orginisationsin the sector. Also speaking to people withinthe various provincialgovernments. We think this is targetedappropriately. It's credit, it's on acommercial basis and it wouldallow businesses -- andbusinesses importantly in theenergy sector -- that areimportant to jobs inNewfoundland and Labrador, tobridge this time to get to whatwe know is a better time once weget through this crisis.

[Speaking French]

---

**Question**:
It sort of soundslike you weren't quite inagreement in your questions. So I guess that i'll ask itagain. In terms of the possibility ofthe government buying equityshares in oil companies, it sortof sounds, minister o'regan,like you were saying maybe?am I correct in understandingwhat you were saying?

NO, WHAT I AM SAYING IS THATWE CONTINUE TO LISTEN TOSTAKEHOLDERS AND TO LISTEN TOTHEIR SUGGESTIONS AND LISTENDIRECTLY TO THEM.MYSELF AND MY COLLEAGUES SPENDMOST OF OUR DAY DOING THAT.WE HAVE LISTENED VERY CAREFULLY.AND SOME THINGS WE'RE ABLE TO DOTODAY.IN THE CASE, FOR INSTANCE, WITHNEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR,THERE'S FURTHER INITIATIVES THATWE'RE LOOKING AT TO KEEP THEINDUSTRY COMPETITIVE.WE'LL BE WORKING WITH THEM ONTHAT.I'D LIKE TO TAKE THE OPPORTUNITYTO SPEAK TO HOW CONSTRUCTIVE OURRELATIONSHIP HAS BEEN WITH THEPROVINCES.I ENJOY VERY GOOD RELATIONSHIPSWITH ENERGY MINISTERS ANDNATURAL RESOURCE MINISTERS RIGHTACROSS THE COUNTRY, ANDCANADIANS SHOULD KNOW HOWCONSTRUCTIVE THEY'VE BEEN,PARTICULARLY THE THREE ENERGYMINISTERS FROM THE THREE OIL ANDGAS-PRODUCING PROVINCES INNEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR ANDSASKATCHEWAN AND, OF COURSE,ALBERTA.THEY HAVE BEEN VERY, VERYCONSTRUCTIVE.AND A LOT OF WHAT WE'VE BEENABLE TO DO WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO DOTOGETHER.[please stand by]AT THIS POINT?

HEATHER STARTED WITH BILL, SO WHY DON'T WE START WITH BILL, TOO.BILL, PLEASE.

WELL, THANKS, HEATHER.SO, FIRST OF ALL, THE BROAD PICTURE, WE RECOGNIZE THERE ARE BUSINESSES ACROSS THE COUNTRY THAT NEED ACCESS TO CREDIT.SO THAT IS CREDITICALLY IMPORTANT.THE EMERGENCY BUSINESS ACCOUNT IS FOR THE SMALLEST OF BUSINESSES.THE CREDIT WE ALREADY PUT OUT OVER THE COURSE OF THE LAST THREE WEEKS THROUGH THE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT BANK AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT CANADA IS UP TO $12.5 MILLION OF CREDIT FOR SMALL TO MID-SIZED BUSINESSES.WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT TODAY IS FOR CREDIT FOR THOSE MID-SIZED BUSINESSES AND WE START WITH THE ENERGY SECTOR WHERE WE KNOW THE CHALLENGES ARE VERY SIGNIFICANT.IT'S COVID-19, IT IS THE CHALLENGE IN THE CHANGING OIL PRICES AND DECREASE IN DEMAND.THESE THINGS TOGETHER MEANS THAT CREDIT IS VERY MUCH NEEDED FOR THOSE BUSINESSES.THAT IS WHY WE STARTED THERE.THERE WILL BE MORE THAT WE NEED TO DO FOR CREDIT ACROSS MID-SIZED BUSINESSES ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND THAT WILL BE COMING SHORTLY.

SEAMUS?

JUST TO REINFORCE THE POINT THAT THE VAST MAJORITY OF WORKERS IN THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR AND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES WHETHER IT'S CONTRACTORS OR DRILLERS OR PRODUCER AND SMALL OPERATORS ACROSS THE COUNTRY.SO, FOCUS ON THEM IS A FOCUS ON WORKERS AND ENSURING THAT THESE COMPANIES REMAIN IN TACT SO THAT THESE WORKERS HAVE JOBS TO COME BACK TO ONCE WE GET THROUGH THIS.

**Reporter**:
Ok. As a follow-up, did you put a number on the --

**Rosemary**:
Ok. We'll pull away from the federal briefing today and leave you with the notion that the Prime Minister announced earlier, $1. 7 billion to help clean up orphan wells in Alberta. More possible credit to come for oil and gas companies that have been hit by a double wantmy of covid-19 and significant drop in oil prices. I'll leave it there for you today. Let us bring you now to toronto where the premier of Ontario, doug ford, is speaking.
