I'm rosemary barton. Thank you for joining us on cbc, cbc news network, or streaming around the world. We are, as we do at this time of day, standing by to hear from Prime Minister justin trudeau. He is expected today to respond to some of the urgent appeals to support various industries across canada. For weeks, as his government has been rolling out emergency aid for canadian businesses and workers. The Prime Minister has also been promising second  -- sectoral help by certain industris that have been hit particularly hard by the covid-19 shutdown. Let me bring in my colleagues as we stand by and wait for the Prime Minister. The host of "power & politics", vassy kapelos and shalima shivji. I don't think this is an oil and gas announcement from what i'm hearing. But there will be components that will help alberta and other places.

Vassy:
Yeah, and i'll tell you why I think we've all been asking various people in government, is this going to be targeted, rosey, to oil and gas. Back at the end of march, I think it was the 25th or 26th, bill morneau said help for the oil patch would be coming in hours or days. That didn't materialize. There is sort of a double whammy when it comes to the oil patch right now. Not just because of covid-19 and decreased demand for oil, much decreased demand, but also this price war that emerged between russia and saudi arabia that kind of got resold last week, but didn't really end up buoying oil prices. They're at all-time lows. A barrel of canadian oil was selling for less than $5. The idea was -- or the question raised to the government is going to be is there specific help for the sector?and what might that help look like?there's been two specific asks for it. The first is orphan wells. These are sites that the company ended up going broke and didn't clean up. It's estimated the cleanup of those sites could cost billions of dollars, upwards of $8 billion, one assessment put out there. The alberta government has announced that some money would be directed to it. There is the expectation that the federal government will chip in on that endeavour. I don't know to what degree. The second big ask, particularly from industry, is around liquidity for producers that have had to shelve capital projects, for example, or are trying to keep employees on the payroll. There is the wage subsidy that they can access, but they also asked for help with liquidity. It will be interesting to see that part of the announcement. There are indications so far that there this won't necessarily be, you know, a big package targeted specifically at the oil sector, that there is also an announcement coming from the Prime Minister that would be aimed at helping people who the cerb or the emergency business loan have missed and we have certainly heard from a lot of those people. Think of some musicians, for example, or others in the culture sector. That kind of thing. I'm going to be looking to see what announcement that involves but there are people looking for sector-specific help and to what degree will this announcement address that.

Rosemary:
Yeah. It does not sound like a, quote-unquote, bailout for oil and gas today. There will be some sort of measures there as you suggested to help them along. But it will be, from what we're hearing anyway, a much broad way of helping different industries that have been hit in different ways and you alluded to the cultural sector, but tourism is an example and there are certainly others. Are we expecting that -- it should be fairly substantive,  I would guess, too, talking about many sectors and many ministers showing up at the noon press conference.

Reporter:
Yeah. We're hearing it is across multiple sectors and that has been the focus from the government from the git-go. As vassy mentioned, bill more know did talk about help for the oil and gas sector coming within hours. That was three long weeks ago. Whenever the government has been talking about this, they have been framing it as help for multiple vulnerable industries. As you mentioned, tourismt culture sector as well and the focus has been on workers. So, getting people back working on this. We are hearing regional developments will play a part in this, in terms of, as vassy was mentioning, what certain areas are really feeling more particularly -- you know, certain tourism -- the focus on tourism, people aren't going on tour buses and people aren't, you know, signing up to go into museums and whatnot. So, it is really the focus on workers and that in particular across a broad spectrum of sectors that are really hard hit by this.

Rosemary:
And one of the things that the government has said is that the first  priority was to get money to individuals and the second was to get help to businesses and now we're broadening out to larger industries. Abi don't know if that includes even the airline industry, which, as we know, is what's happening to the wage subsidy benefit, which is not working yet, up and running yet. But maybe they also are looking for some substantive money. I'm going to -- i'll come back to both of you. While we wait to hear more from the Prime Minister about these details of various industries, vassy talked a little bit there about what could happen in doing to help alberta a. Let us go to alberta to talk about what they are asking for because we know that the economy has been hit very hard. Not only by oil prices, but also the pandemic. A double whammy in that part of the country. And jason kenney has said that it's possible that employment there -- the unemployment rate hits 25%, which would be just astounding. The cbc's carolyn dunn joins me from calgary. All right, carolyn, I know you talked to people in the industry regularly and there have been a lot of asks. It doesn't sound like this is the big, big package that they maybe were looking for. But there will be something here.

Reporter:
I think that is what i'm watching for. Are we going -- is this going to be parceled out of the giant industry package or are we going to start out smaller today and kind of [inaudible] with those big announcements with airlines, etc. What alberta is asking for is very clear.$20 to $30 billion package. Likely a lot of that will be around liquidity, you know, around backstopping credit, around low-interest loans, that kind of thing. And you mentioned the fallout for workers, an unemployment rate of up to 25% or beyond, which is astounding. And I guess for industry, if they don't get immediate help with their liquidity, they will be losing oil and gas companies, guaranteed. But even, you know, it is good to accelerate and it could even be the big one. We are also hearing from industry that they would like the see a freeze in the carbon tax as well as a delay in, you know, climate and collusion regulations, which is coming under some criticism as perhaps the industry using this pandemic crisis, you know, to kind of get through the backdoor what it couldn't get through the beginning, through the front door. But what's really interesting is that orphan well package and I expect that we hear from the Prime Minister today on that. There are more than 150,000 orphaned wells in alberta. Those are wells that have been abandon and they're not being serviced. So just sitting, wrecking farmer's fields, really. And a it would be, you know, billions of dollars, perhaps $8 billion to remediate those. What it might mean at this time is sort of a double whammy that would put oil workers back to work cleaning those up and get them cleaned up. Normally it would come under a lot of criticism that taxpayers will be paying to clean up the mess that oil companies left. But these are not normal times as you know. So if there is some help for orphan wells, it could actually help the industry by keeping people working and deal with a real environmental problem here in alberta.

Rosemary:
Yeah. It would do a couple of things all at once, that's for sure. Thank you for that. You'll stand by in case we need to get back to you. Carolyn dunn in calgary. As we wait for the Prime Minister, expected in about seven minutes, let me go to kathy duke. She is c. E.o. Of destination st. John's, the agency that works hard to bring in visitors to the province of newfoundland and labrador and like all places across this country, it is a tough challenge in these difficult times because tourism and visiting places isn't really something that is happening. Kathy, good to see you.

THANK YOU FOR HAVING ME.

Rosemary:
A pleasure. How are things there?obviously your industry, what you're doing isn't happening right now.

Caller:
Absolutely. The impact of covid-19 on our tourism here in newfoundland and labrador has really been devastating. The tourism industry is really important to the province. We have maybe 20,000 people working in the industry and maybe 2500 small businesses. The organization that I work for, destination st. John's, represents st. John's region. And we certainly have felt it here. Many of our hotels are closed. Which is amazing that that could happen. And it is happening across the country. Restaurants and pubs, retails and businesses on water street are closed and they're all very, very worried that they may not be around when the tourism industry starts.

Rosemary:
I imagine you do pretty well in normal times.

SURE.WELL, [INAUDIBLE] ABOUT $1.3 BILLION.IN ST. JOHN'S, WE REALLY DEPEND ON THE BUSINESS.FOR EXAMPLE, IN MEETINGS AND CONVENTIONS, WE MAY DO 100 CONVENTIONS A YEAR AND THAT WOULD BRING IN $450 MILLION JUST IN THAT SECTOR IN ST. JOHN'S.SO IT'S PRETTY SIGNIFICANT.

Rosemary:
So what could the government do or what have you been asking the government to do that would be of help for this particular industry and obviously you're just one example, but this is happening across the country.

YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.THINK THAT THE TRAVEL AND TOURISM INDUSTRY WAS THE FIRST INDUSTRY HIT AND HIT THE HARDEST.WITH THE COMPLETE SHUTDOWN OF TRAVEL, IT'S JUST UNBELIEVABLE THE  IMPACT AND THAT'S HAD A RIPPLE EFFECT TO OTHER BUSINESSS THAT SERVE OUR TRAVELERS WHEN THEY COME TO OUR DESTINATION.WE'RE WORKING WITH THE TOURISM INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF CANADA AND PUTTING TOGETHER SOME OF THESE IDEAS TO BE PRESENTED TO GOVERNMENT.I THINK THAT IS ONE OF THE THINGS THAT WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND IS THAT WE NEED AN IMMEDIATE RESPONSE BECAUSE MANY OF OUR BUSINESSES WON'T EVEN BE AROUND WHEN OUR TOURISM SEASON STARTS AND WE NEED TO HAVE THAT RECOVERY PLAN, THAT MARKETING RECOVERY PLAN.SO I THINK THAT, FOR EXAMPLE, THE 75% WAGE  SUBSIDY IS WONDERFUL, BUT FOR MANY OF OUR TOURISM OPERATORS, THEY NEED THAT [INAUDIBLE] IN THE SUMMER.THINGS LIKE THAT THAT ARE UNIQUE, IF YOU WILL, TO THE TOURISM INDUSTRY THAT WE NEED TO SEE WITH EXTENDED PROGRAMMES AROUND THOSE.

Rosemary:
The Prime Minister is talking about weeks still of having to live under these very strict public health restrictions. Can this happen still for weeks or is there any pressure coming from any of your members to get the economy up and running again?

OH, I THINK, YOU KNOW, IF WE HAD OUR [INAUDIBLE], WE WOULD START TOMORROW, OF COURSE.THE TOURISM INDUSTRY REPRESENTATIVES THAT WE WORK WITH REALLY JUST TRYING TO GET A HANDLE ON WHEN THINGS ARE GOING TO TURN AROUND.AND I THINK [INAUDIBLE].IT MAY START JULY OR AUGUST.OTHERS THE FOLLOWING SUMMER SAYING THAT THERE WON'T BE ANY VISITATION UNTIL 2021.WE DO KNOW THAT AS TRAVEL COMES BACK, IT WILL BE MOSTLY DOMESTIC TRAVELERS AND THAT IS GOOD FOR NEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR IN THAT 80% OF OUR VISITORS HAVE TRADITIONALLY COME FROM CANADA.SO WE REALLY IMMEDIATE TO BE TARGETED TO THE TRAVELER.WE UNDERSTAND THAT [INAUDIBLE] DRIVE RATHER THAN FLY AND PUTS A HUGE EMPHASIS ON SPACE, SOCIAL DISTANCING, PLANES.SO I THINK ALL OF OUR TOURISM OPERATORS WHO HAVE TO RETHINK WHO THE TRAVELER IS.IT WILL COST US A LOT MORE TO DO THE KIND OF THINGS THAT WE HAVE TO DO FOR INDIVIDUAL TRAVELER THAN WE DID IN THE PAST.

Rosemary:
All right. Cathy daoufj I will happily come back to water street anytime I can get there. Sending your province all the best. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.

THANK YOU.

Rosemary:
Ok, cathy duke, c. E.o. Of destination st. John's, agency of tourism for that province which, of course, is another sector that has been hit hard. Just to give you a sense of how bad things are, and then i'll bring in vassy, the accommodation and food services sector in this country has shrunk by a quarter. I.t. Arts and culture lost 13% of all its jobs. Education, 9%.wholesale and retail trade lost 7%.the only place that continues to add some jobs, other than grocery stores and essential services work would be agriculture. Nearly 7,000 jobs there created as obviously the reliance on the domestic food chain becomes more and more important. I'll bring in my colleagues again and turn to you, vassy, about it guess the ways in which the government has tried to shore up support. And how this might be different given that there are particular areas, of course, that are basically not functioning anymore.

Vassy:
Yeah. I think we've seen the unveiling and rolling out of two giant financial aid packages, right?the first being directed at individuals who have to stay home because of covid-19, who can't work, and who have lost most, if not all of their income. They're getting right now $2,000 and, as you reminded our viewers yesterday, they should be re-applying for the second month, which they might need that money. That was the first step. The second step was aimed at businesses. And it involves wage subsidies as well as this loan, this canadian emergency business account. Basically a $40,000 interest-free loan, a quarter of it can be forgiven. They expanded the parameters yesterday to who can qualify for that loan. I I think they had 220,000 applications approved so far.$8. 8 billion worth of credit. So, the need is clear and it's evidents. However, as you've been discussing with carolyn and your last guest, there are certain sectors and the Prime Minister always -- i've noticed names in tandem. Airlines, tourism and the i'll patch.-- oil patch. Those are clearly what the government has indicated and what we can discern from what we see in front of us as sectors, industries that are particularly hard hit. They're sort of suffering from double or triple whammies. So, you know, what we're looking towards here from the Prime Minister is beyond an acknowledgment that that is the case. Some specifics about how the government plans to address the more acute needs in those industries. And obviously we're paying close attention to the oil patch because there is -- it is set against the backdrop of a very different political discussion. And I think sort of tensions that existed prior to all of this between alberta and the federal government and I think, you know, that factors into all of this, to a certain degree. We know about this discussion apparently happening at cabinet where there's pushback to subsidizing the oil patch to any degree. So I think it is something to keep our eye on. But as I said, I think what we really need to focus on is, if those are the industris that are most acutely feeling the pain right now, what is the remedy the government proposes here today.

Rosemary:
And I think shalima mentioned this, too, there are government agencies like the co-op or the atlantic provinces where federal money can be sort of  distributed in a very quick way. If there are particularly hard-hit areas, it is probably easier and faster for those agencies to be able to get it to people that need it rather than the federal government doing it centrally from ottawa. So we would expect some of that to be addressed here today as well. I'll turn to shalima shivji. The Prime Minister is running a few minutes late. There are ongoing conversation around the canada-u. S. border. We know that that suspension, the prevention to travel across the border except for essential workers, is set to expire next week.

Reporter:
That's right. And there are discussions whether that would be extended or not. Those discussions are still ongoing, that obviously this situation, we're still in the midst of it in terms of this crisis and the health effects of this. So t limited movement, of course, limited to only essential supplies, essential businesses across the canada-u. S. border set to -- there was always a deadline for it as most of these things and, of course, we're hearing that there are talks to extend that as we're still going through this and as we're still seeing effects and cases rising. We're hearing that is still an ongoing discussion and working on that with officials down in the united states.

Rosemary:
And there had been concern after the president said earlier this week that the canada-u. S. border would be one of fastest to re-open and some interpretation that it was about to re-open. That is not the case from the deputy Prime Minister that there will likely be an extension but they haven't actually reached that deal yet. That would be important, you're right. Because the containment of the virus and seeing how canada is doing at a time like this versus the united states, probably the last thing that anyone would want is open borders and start to see travel move again. We're waiting for the Prime Minister as we do at this time of day. He is running a couple of minutes late. That is rideau cottage you are looking at live. I'm sure you are familiar with it now. A couple other issues to keep your eye on today. And we heard earlier from conservative leader and doctor sheer and that is the return of parliament. It, too, was on a deadline. All parties had agreed that it would be suspended until monday unless they could reach another agreement to continue that suspension. As of now, there is no deal on, that either. And andrew scheer has been pushing very hard to see in-person sitings. He is asking for four times a week. Doesn't sound like that is acceptable to the government. And it doesn't even sound like other partis are interested in coming in and having m. P.s here in a reduced capacity for that many days of week. But it is something that conservatives continue to push. And for now, there is no deal. And if they don't get a deal by monday, which I imagine they will, we would be in a place where the house of commons would have to resume. Which obviously would fly in the face of public health directives. Another issue to keep your eye on. And I will bring in vassy because there is another two-minute warning. I don't know if I can do that much on my own.[laughter]maybe we'll just pick up on that issue that the conservatives are pushing very hard for increased accountability and increased questions to the government, which, you know, I totally get. But i'm not sure that we are -- it doesn't sound like we're anywhere near close on a deal in terms of everyone agreeing that one or two or three times a week will actually happen.

Vassy:
This is an interesting ottawa scenario here. In the midst of all of this, that is understandable, I think, from both points of view. The nexus of the disagreement seems to be how much in-person parliament should politicians be engaging in. As you mentioned, the conservatives  want sitings in-person, four times a week. My understanding late yesterday is it looked like there might be some movement towards an agreement for a reduced number of sitings. Maybe once a week and end up being a few hours and very much an accountability session. Maybe not like question period, but something that we've come to know as committee as the whole. The opposition getting a chances to ask questions of the government about the policies that they have rolled out and they plan to roll out. The corresponding request  is, well can they do that virtually?will they be able to do that virtually?the speaker's office, in particular, is working on some sort of plan to make that happen. For the opposition, they would like to continue some in person. They say the virtual thing can be a companion piece. If it's not ready yet, there has to be something happening in person. The government has put forward the idea that that virtual idea might work going forward, but to have those in-session sitings every single day, to be in person every single day doesn't really adhere to physical distancing rules from where they sit or doesn't speak to the sentiment behind physical distancing and then the message that they put forth.

Rosemary:
Here's the Prime Minister of canada. Thank you for that.

Prime Minister Trudeau:s [SPEAKING FRENCH].

Interpreter:
This morning, I want to begin by talking about the request for assistance we received from quebec on wednesday and give you the most recent news about medical equipment supplies. The minister of public health has been working with quebec and the minister of national defence and I can now confirm that approximately 125 members of the canadian armed forces, with health care training, will be providing support to workers in long-term care facilities. We continue to work with the government of quebec to find other ways to support them, including with the red cross and specialized volunteers registered with health canada. With regards to the supplies of medical equipment, bell canada has donated 1. 5 million n-95 masks and we're working as quickly as possible to get them to our frontline workers. That can be added to the millions of surgical masks that we sent out to the provinces and territories this week.

Prime Minister Trudeau:
Over the past few weeks, the pandemic has created anxiety and uncertainty for all canadians but some are going through an especially tough time. Covid-19 has brought many industris to a halt and workers across the country are struggling as a result. From the start, our goal as a government has been clear -- to help all canadians get through these challenging times. As i've said many times before, we're here to support you, to lend you a helping hand when you need it most. Across the country, canadians are standing shoulder to shoulder and we're all in this together. Today, our government is announcing more help for workers in alberta, saskatchewan, b. C. and newfoundland and labrador. We're also announcing more help for small businesses and more help for those who work in the arts, culture and sports sectors. I'll start with the energy sector. Right now, workers and families are struggling because of things beyond their control. Both the devastating effects of the pandemic and price war driven by foreign interests are a challenge. As a result, companies have had to slowdown or pause their operations, leaving too many people out of work. To help these worker, our government will invest $1. 7 billion to clean up orphan and inactive wells in alberta, saskatchewan and b. C..these wells, which are no longer in use, can be detrimental not only to our environment, but to people's health. Think of the farmer who can't go anything on his land because of an abandoned well a few steps away from his home. Think of the small town or indigenous communities strugling with this issuthat has been festering for years or even decades. Cleaning them up will bring people back to work and help many landowners who have had these wells on their property for years but haven't been able to get them taken care of and the land restored. Our goal is to create immediate jobs in these provinces while helping companies avoid bankruptcy and supporting our environmental targets. In alberta alone, these investments will maintain 5200 jobs. We listened to the concerns of landowners, municipalities and indigenous commuters who want to make sure that the pollute or pay principle is strengthened and their voices are heard. I want to thank government of alberta for working with us and listening to their concerns. Our government will also establish a $750 million emission reduction fund with the focus on methane to create and maintain jobs through pollution reduction efforts. This includes $75 million to help the offshore industry cut  emissions in newfoundland and labrador. This fund will primarily provide repayable contributions to firms to make them more competitive, reduce waste and pollution and most importantly protect jobs. Right now, many energy firms are experiencing a cash crunch so they don't have the funds to invest in technologies, to reduce  emissions or fix methane leaks. Today's announcement will allow for this kind of work to be done and create jobs people need during this difficult time. Through the wells and methane initiatives, we estimate that we will maintain roughly 10,000 jobs across the country. Just because we're in a health crisis doesn't mean we can neglect the environmental crisis. We're also working with b. D.c. And e. D.c. To expand credit support for at-risk medium-sized energy companis so they can maintain operations and keep employees.[speaking french].

Interpreter:
Our government will be investing $1. 7 billion to clean up orphaned and abandoned wells in alberta, saskatchewan and british columbia. The goal is to create jobs for workers in the energy sector to avoid companies going bankrupt and support our environmental targets. These wells, which are no longer used to produce oil may present a risk not only for our environment, but also for our health. By cleaning them up, we will create jobs for workers. We will also help people who have these abandoned wells on their land and we are predicting that these funds will maintain electoral college $5200 jobs in alberta alone. We develop this policy with the government of alberta and municipal partners and I want to thank them for their contributions. Our government will also be setting up a $750 million fund to reduce emissions that will focus on pollution caused by methane in order to create and maintain jobs. Of that sum, $75 million will be allocated to oil and gas companies who work offshore, newfoundland and labrador, to reduce their emissions. This fund will provide for repayable contributions to companies in order to protect jobs, increase their competitiveness and reduce pollution. Right now, energy sector companies have cash flow problems, which means that they don't have the necessary money to invest in technologis that help to reduce emissions or repair methane leaks. Today's announcement will allow these companies to carry out that work while, at the same time, creating jobs for workers during this difficult time. This public health crisis must not prevent us from taking action to fight the climate crisis. With this nichetive to clean up the wells and the fund to reduce emissions, we believe that 10,000 jobs will be maintained. At the same time, we're working with b. D.c. And e. D.c. To strengthen credit support for medium-sized energy companies that are particularly at risk. Once again, the goal is to allow these companies to continue their activity in order to keep their employees.

Prime Minister Trudeau:s NOW I WANT TO TURN TO WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO NEXT FOR SMALL BUSINESSES AND THE PEOPLE THEY EMPLOY.OVER THE PAST FEW WEEK, WE'VE TAKEN A NUMBER OF STEPS TO SUPPORT THESE EMPLOYERS AND MOSTLY THEIR EMPLOYERS.WE INTRODUCED THE CANADA EMERGENCY WAGE SUBSIDY TO HELP KEEP PEOPLE ON THE PAYROLL.WE LAUNCHED AND EXPANDED THE CANADA EMERGENCY BUSINESS ACCOUNT FOR THOSE BUSINESSES STRUGGLING WITH CASH FLOW.BUT MINISTERS JOLY, BAIN AND OTHERS HAVE HEARD THAT SOME BUSINESSS ARE STILL FALLING THROUGH THE CRACKS.TO FIX THAT, OUR GOVERNMENT WILL PROVIDE $962 MILLION TO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES AND THE COMMUNITY FUTURES NETWORK.THIS FUNDING WILL HELP ENSURE THAT MORE BUSINESSES, ESPECIALLY EMPLOYEES BASED IN RURAL PARTS OF THE COUNTRY OR THOSE WHO DON'T HAVE A RELATIONSHIP WITH THE TRADITIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTION ARE GETTING THE SUPPORT THEY THAT THEY NEED.THERE IS AN ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME TO SUPPORT INKNOW VAIZ TOS AND OTHER EARLY STAGE DEVELOPMENT FIRMS THAT DON'T QUALIFY FOR THE WAGE SUBSIDY BY STILL NEED HELP.

FOR SMALL BUSINESSES, TODAY WE'RE ANNOUNCING TWO FURTHER INVESTMENTS.FIRST OUR GOVERNMENT WILL PROVIDE $962 MILLION TO REGIONAL DEVELOPMENTINGS AS AND TO THE COMMUNITY FUTURES NETWORK.THIS IS MONEY THAT WILL MAKE IT POSSIBLE TO PROVIDE HELP TO SMALL BUSINESSES THAT DON'T QUALIFY FOR THE EMERGENCY WAGE SUBSIDY OR TO RECEIVE A LOAN THROUGH THE EMERGENCY ACCOUNT.OUR GOVERNMENT WILL ALSO ALLOCATE $270 MILLION TO [SPEAKING FRENCH] AND TO THE INDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ASSISTANCE PROGRAMME TO SUPPORT INNOVATORS AND OTHER STARTUPS THAT ARE NOT ELIGIBLE FOR THE WAGE SUBSIDY.WE ALSO HAVE NEWS FOR PEOPLE WORKING IN THE ARTS, CULTURE AND SPORTS SECTORS.THESE ARE INDUSTRIES WHICH SOME, LIKE THE SMALL BUSINESSES I JUST DESCRIBED, ARE NOT ABLE TO RECEIVE THE ASSISTANCE ALREADY ANNOUNCED BECAUSE THEIR INCOME STRUCTURES ARE NOT THE SAME OR THEY DON'T OPERATE THE SAME WAY.FROM THE BEGINNING OF THIS CRISIS, ARTISTS HAVE BEEN PROVIDING US WITH COMFORT, LAUGHTER AND HAPPINESS.NOW OUR ATHLETES CONTINUE TO INSPIRE US, ENCOURAGE US AND MAKE US PROUD.PEOPLE WHO WORK IN THE ARTS, CULTURE AND SPORTS SECTORS SHARE THEIR PASSION WITH US AND ALLOW US TO DREAM AND THESE DAYS, WHEN WE'RE ALL AT HOME AND ISOLATED THEY MAKE US FEEL A LITTLE BIT LESS ALONE.THESE ARE ONLY SOME OF THE REASONS WHY WE HAVE TO BE THERE FOR THEM.AS THEY ARE THERE FOR US.THEREFORE, OUR GOVERNMENT WILL PROVIDE $500 MILLION TO HERITAGE CANADA TO SUPPORT OUR ARTISTS, CREATORS AND THE RISING STARS OF OUR SPORTING ASSOCIATIONS.THROUGH THIS FUNDING, PEOPLE WILL BE ABLE TO RECEIVE WAGE SUPPORT AND ORGANIZATIONS WILL HAVE ACCESS TO FUNDING IF THEY ARE EXPERIENCING LIQUIDITY PROBLEMS.

Prime Minister Trudeau:s WE'LL GIVE $500 MILLION TO HERITAGE CANADA TO SUPPORT THOSE WHO WORK IN THE ARTS, CULTURE AND SPORTS SECTORS.LIKE THE SMALL BUSINESSES I WAS TALKING ABOUT, PEOPLE IN BUSINESSES IN THESE SECTORS DO NOT HAVE ACCESS TO SOME OF HELP WE ANNOUNCED BECAUSE OF HOW THE COMPANIES OPERATE OR HOW REVENUES ARE GENERATED.WITH THIS INVESTMENT, PEOPLE WILL BE ABLE TO RECEIVE WAGE SUPPORT AND ORGANISATIONS STRUGGLING WITH CASH FLOW WILL BE ABLE TO ACCESS FINANCING.AT THE SAME TIME, WE CONTINUE TO SUPPORT THOSE WHO LOST THEIR JOBS WITH THE CANADA EMERGENCY RESPONSE BENEFIT.SO FAR OVER 7.5 MILLION PAYMENTS HAVE BEEN MADE.THAT IS MONEY SENT DIRECTLY TO THOSE WHO NEED IT MOST.I WANT TO, AGAIN, THANK MY AMAZING PUBLIC SERVANTS PROCESSING THESE CLAIMS AT RECORD SPEED.MOVING FORWARD, WE'LL BE RELEASING THE LATEST FIGURES  ON THE CERB THROUGH THE GOVERNMENT OPEN PORTAL THREE TIMES A WEEK SO ACADEMICS, RESEARCHERS AND CANADIANS CAN KEEP TRACK OF THE WORK BEING DONE.WE'LL CONTINUE TO PROVIDE AND OPEN UP DA I THAT SO THAT WE CAN GET THE BEST ADVICE FROM EXPERTS AND CONTINUE TO HELP CANADIANS.I WANT TO END THIS MORNING BY REMINDING EVERYONE THAT TODAY IS THE 38TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE CHARTER OF RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS.WHICH UNDERPINS WHO WE ARE AS A PEOPLE AND STRIVE TO BE AS A PEOPLE.IT PROTECTS THE RIGHT OF EACH AND EVERY ONE OF US TO BE WHO WE ARE, TO WORSHIP HOW WE WANT, TO LOVE WHOM WE LOVE.AT THE HEART OF THE CHARTER IS THE NOTION OF CHOICE, THAT WE CAN CHOOSE THE KIND OF LIFE WE WANT FOR OURSELVES.AS OUR COUNTRY CONFRONT THIS IS PANDEMIC, I'M ESPECIALLY GRATEFUL THAT CANADIANS HAVE CHOSEN TO PROTECT EACH OTHER AND CARE FOR ONE ANOTHER.TO EVERYONE WHO HAS STAYED HOME AND FOLLOWED PUBLIC HEALTH RECOMMENDATIONS, THANK YOU.MAKING THAT CHOICE TOGETHER TODAY WILL ENSURE THAT WE REMAIN WHO WE ARE AS CANADIANS FOR GENERATIONS TO COME.MERCI.[SPEAKING FRENCH].

Interpreter:
I'm now ready to take your questions.

[SPEAKING FRENCH].OPERATOR:
Merci. Thank you. The first question, dylan robertson, winnipeg free press. Your line is open.

Caller:
Prime minister. You've expressed a preference for virtual parliament. Many regions of canada have terrible internet connection and they tend to be the ones that feel the most ignored by ottawa. Are you comfortable with having virtual sitings if m. P.s can't participate in realtime from their home?

Prime Minister Trudeau:
Obviously the point of virtual sitings would be to ensure that canadians not within driving distance of ottawa continue to have their views represented and their concerns heard. That is a technological challenge that we'll work very, very hard on to ensure that, as we move forward on virtual parliament solutions as the speaker in the house of commons work on that, that we make sure that every voice can be heard of the 338 canadians. At the same time, we have proposed to the opposition parties that parliament could come back every single week to discuss legislation and to ensure that there is accountability. We immediate to make sure that our democracy continues to function and this is something that we're very serious about. Right now, on the books, there is a rule that says 338m. P.s need to get on flights sunday evening to come back to ottawa on monday morning as parliament is supposed to resume. That is obviously not a good idea. We're not in normal circumstances. So we're negotiating with all opposition parties to try and make sure we can find a way to keep the important work of our democracy going while at the same time respecting public health advice.[speaking french].

Interpreter:
First of all, in terms of a virtual parliament, I think it will be important to ensure that members from every part of the country can shaefr their preoccupations and those of their constituents and that is why we're working with the house of commons to ensure that we have the technology to do that. At the same time, we know that it is important for our democracy to continue to work and, therefore, we have proposed that parliament resume its work every week to pass legislation and ensure that there is accountability and the questions can be asked of the government. We do hope that the opposition parties will agree to that proposal because otherwise parliament is supposed to sit with 338 members of parliament starting on monday morning and I think we all realise that that would not be a good idea.

Caller:
Prime minister, the premier of saskatchewan has asked for [inaudible] interest rates. Governor poloz says they have not asked to help with the provincial debt market. He says no one has asked us to do anything on the provincial front t. Premier has also asked to put public servants on e. I. today's job announcement differentser affect the provincial debt market. My question is, when will the provinces learn what you're doing for their debt and what is already off the table?

Prime Minister Trudeau:
I had an excellent conversation last night with the premiers of all the provinces and territories. This issue was brought up. We recognize that different provinces carry different debt loads and challenges on access to credit. The bank of canada has taken steps to impact the provincial coffers and at the same time, we'll ensure that provinces across the country are able to get the support they need to give to their citizens.

THANK YOU.NEXT QUESTION.OPERATOR:
Thank you, merci. Your line is open.

Reporter:
Good morning, Prime Minister.[inaudible] lowered the threshold for owners to apply for interest-free loans. But still a number of people i've spoken with this week are not impacted by any of these changes. What should people in these positions, people who are left out and who have a hard time making ends meet do?should they apply for the c. R.b. Or wait for your government to come up with another fix?

Prime Minister Trudeau:s FROM THE VERY BEGINNING, WE KNEW WE HAD TO HELP AS MANY PEOPLE AS WE POSSIBLY COULD WHO NEEDED THE HELP AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE.THAT IS WHY WE MOVED FORWARD WITH TWO BIG, VERY STRONG PROGRAMMES WITH BOTH THE CANADA EMERGENCY RESPONSE BENEFIT THAT HAS SENT OUT OVER 7.5 MILLION PAYMENTS ALREADY AND THE WAGE SUBSIDY THAT WILL KICK IN IN A FEW WEEKS ALLOWING EMPLOYERS TO REHIRE THEIR EMPLOYEES SO THAT WHEN THE ECONOMY BOUNCES BACK, PEOPLE WILL HAVE LINKS TO THEIR JOBS WHILE THEY ARE SUPPORTED IN THIS TIME OF DEFLTTY.BUT FROM THE BEGINNING, WE RECOGNIZE THAT MOVING QUICKLY AND BROADLY WOULD LEAVE GAPS AND THAT IS WHY OVER THE PAST WEEKS, WE HAVE BEEN ANNOUNCING, ALMOST EVERY SINGLE DAY, NEW MEASURES THAT TWEAK THE PROPOSALS WE MADE, THAT EXPAND OTHER PROPOSALS, THAT CREATE NEW INITIATIVES TO TRY AND MAKE SURE WE'RE GETTING HELP TO EVERYONE WHO NEEDS THEM.THE ANNOUNCEMENTS WE MADE FOR ARTS AND CULTURE SECTOR, SPORTING ORGANISATIONS AND SMALL BUSINESSES LIKE STARTUPS FOR SMALL BUSINESSES IN RURAL AREAS, FOR THE RANGE OF WORKERS IN THE ENERGY SECTOR WHO ARE FACING LAYERS OF CALAMITY RIGHT NOW ARE THE KINDS OF THINGS WE'RE MAKING SURE IS GETTING THE HELP THEY NEED.WE'RE CONTINUING TO LISTEN TO CANADIANS WHO ARE EXPRESSING THAT THEY ARE NOT GETTING THE HELP THEY NEED AND WE'RE CONSTANTLY LOOKING FOR WAYS TO HELP THEM.

FOLLOW-UP QUESTION?

Reporter:
Yeah, thank you. Are you basically saying wait until the government comes up with another fix?as you know on saturday, m. P.s voted to support a motion that basically said if you need help, the government is going to ensure that if you applied for the cerb and you weren't supposed to be eligible you would be unjustly penalized. Is the government saying the worst thing that happens for you if you apply for cerb and don't qualify that you will have to pay the money back in full next year. Is that the worst thing that will happen to people who apply for cerb because they feel they need it?

Prime Minister Trudeau:
We expect people to apply for the programmes for which they qualify. And, therefore, we are working to make sure we're expanding the qualifications so that people who need the help will get them. We'll continue to announce measures that will include more and more people, help more and more people as we move forward because, for all the millions of people and businesses and employers that we're helping across this country, we know there is more to do and that is what we're continually announcing almost every day. New measures to fix people and fix support for people in particular situations.[speaking french].

Interpreter:
We recognize the programmes that we created to help as many people as possible are not enough. Because some people have special circumstances. Almost on a daily basis, we have been announcing changes or extensions of the programmes to allow people to receive more help based on the programmes we put in place. Operator: thank you. Merci.[speaking french].

Reporter:
[speaking french].

Interpreter:
Good morning, mr. Trudeau. I'd like to come back to your aid plan that you have just unveiled. A lot of people were expecting you to do more. Some people were suggesting that there needed to be an equity contribution from the government. Are you prepared to do that and, if not, why not?why did you not choose that avenue?our emphasis from the outset was to help canadians in difficultty, to help families that are suffering, to help people who need help. And that is why the wage subsidy and the canada emergency response benefit are there to assist millions of canadians in industries right across the country. And we clearly saw that the oil industry has special issues because of what is happening on international markets with the oil price decline and also because of covid-19. So all of these issues mean that we have to do a bit more and that is exactly what we're doing now. We will continue to look at other possibilities if there is a need. But we pry marely want to ensure that we're helping canadian families and canadian workers who need help during these difficult times.

Prime Minister Trudeau:
We took, as an approach from the very beginning, that we need to help canadians. Woe need to help workers and families who are hit by this covid-19 slowdown and shutdown. That is why we moved forward with the canada emergency response benefit that has helped millions upon millions of canadians and the wage subsidy which has allowed companies to rehire workers and will ensure that families across the country get much more support and that is across all industries, across the country. We recognize that certain industris are facing more difficult times. The oil and gas sector, because of the global price war, because of the lower demand related to covid and because of the measures brought in to counter covid itself, those families are particularly hard hit and that is where this initiative, which will create or preserve 5200 jobs in alberta and the other initiatives that lead to perhaps 10,000 jobs across the energy sector are the kinds of things that we can do right now of course, we will continue to work with partners and concerned sectors across the country as we move forward to see if there is a need to do more.

Reporter:
[speaking french].

Interpreter:
Some people were concerned that your assistance would be influenced by some members of your cabinet. The views of some members of the cabinet. Today you are providing support to clean up orphaned wells and to reduce emissions. So, what do you say to those people who will be disappointed by the extent of the assistance that's available and also other people who said that you may have been tainted by the views of other members of your cabinet.

Prime Minister Trudeau:
[speaking french].

Interpreter:
I can tell you that personal convictions of cabinet members have always been that we need to help canadians who need help and to fight the covid-19 crisis. It is to ensthaur we get through this and continue to be an extraordinary country in the years to come. That is our priority and that is why the help that we've been giving workers with two main measures, the emergency response benefit and wage subsidy are available to everyone. At the same time, we're doing other things that the government of alberta has been asking us to do for some time, which is to clean up orphaned wells so that the companies that now are reducing or required to reduce their emissions are able to do that. Particularly when it comes to methane. That is the choice we've been making to help canadians answer we hope that all canadians will have a better employment as a result. Operator: thank you. Merci.[speaking french].

Reporter:
Merci.[speaking french].

Interpreter:
Good morning, mr. Trudeau. With respect to the deployment of canadian armed forces members, can you tell us where those military members are coming from and why such a limited number of reinforcements for quebec?because, as we know, the -- these facilitis are in a dire situation. We have been working with quebec and we were speaking to quebec yesterday to see exactly how we could support them. We're talking about 125 military members who will be providing significant support to these institutions in quebec and we know that we can do more with the red cross and the bank of volunteers that we have. Quebec also has a group of volunteers it can access. We will continue to seek ways to provide that help as best we can and will always want to do more. But the situation with the c. A.f. Members is that we are always limited in our medical resources within any organization. Including in the armed forces. Do you have a follow-up?yes. Just to get a clarify casing. I realise that medical employees are limited in number. But there is information circulating, mr. Trudeau, that an agreement has been reached with the u. S. on the closure of the border. Could you comment on that?well, as I said before, we are in constant conversation with the united states, which is our ally and our friend to ensure that we can both protect our citizens and my priority will alwayss be to protect canadians and we continue to work with the americans to ensure that the borders remain secure. As i've often said, I do not expect those borders to be re-opened in a short period of time. We will continue to listen to science and to closely monitor the evolution of this virus in canada and around the world before we make any decision on that. But I can tell you that our discussions with the americans continue and they are very positive.

Prime Minister Trudeau:
As I said many times, conversations are constant and ongoing with the american administration on issues of mutual concern, including the border. As i've said, we do not file that re-opening the border anytime soon is likely. My responsibility is to ensure the protection and safety of canadians. That is what we'll continue to do and the conversations with the americans have been extremely aligned and extremely productive.

Reporter:
Prime minister, for weeks now, you have been promising relief and aid for the energy sector. What you announced today will help a comparatively small number of workers, isn't going to do anything for the sector overall to help deal with devastating impact of this virus and the downturn in the world oil markets. My question is, is this it?is this the package you were promising?if so, what do you say to people in western canada, particularly who were expecting more substantial relief?

Prime Minister Trudeau:
The first things we dead was move forward with the canada emergency response benefit. It is putting money in the pockets of more than seven million canadians, including many people in the oil and gas sector who have lost their paycheques because of this covid-19 crisis. On top of that, the wage subsidy allows canadians -- canadian workers to continue to receive their salaries and continue to stay connected to their work in the oil and gas sector, which are significant helps for a major industry across this country. On top of that, we've been working with the government of alberta and with industry to look at other things that could be necessary. We heard very clearly that the methane regulations that we are bringing in would be a challenge for industry to meet and industry and others can sk* that we, therefore, back off on the methane regulations. We decided, instead, to lend them money to help them  keep them working and so we can continue to feeting climate change and reduce  emissions while keeping people at work. We've also heard very clearly, and not just from industry, but from municipalities, particularly rural municipalities, landowners across alberta, that the issue of persistent orphan or inactive wells is a real challenge. And this is an opportunity for us to make sure that albertans are getting to work in cleaning up their province at the same time as we've gotten commitments by the government of alberta to strengthen the regulations so we see fewer orphan and inactive wells in the future. We've also made credit available for medium-sized oil and gas companies who are facing particular challenges in terms of liquidity right now. We'll continue to look at ways we can support important industris in this country, including the oil and gas sector. We look forward to doing that while at the same time, keeping our focus squarely on families and workers who need our help.

Reporter:
Prime minister, julie van dusen, cbc news. You spoke to the premiers last night so i'm hoping you can update us on this. Blaine higgs said he is hoping to get his economy going by the summer. John horgan on cbc said he and his washington state counterpart could decide when the border opens. I'm wondering, who decides all this?is it you?is it them?if it is you, will there be international standards to guide them?

Prime Minister Trudeau:
We talked last night about how important it is to be coordinated and agreed on the principles and the approaches that we take. At the same time, recognizing that the situation in p. E.i. Is very different from the situation in ontario, very different from the situation in b. C. there will be regional approaches, as there have been all along to the next steps. But we all agreed that we need to continue to remain very, very vigilant as we carefully look at re-opening the economy, about relaunching certain sectors in the future. We will continue that in the principles and the steps that need to be taken. Of course, this is canada, which means that there are very different needs and very different approaches that will be in place across the country. What we'll be working on to co-ordinate and collaborate on is that the messages that get out and the lens that we take and the data that we collect and the way we do this is aligned and coordinated so that we can maximize our chances of getting through this without having to fall back into self-isolation the way we have been these past few weeks.[speaking french].

Interpreter:
One of the principles we agreed on with the premiers is the importance of coordinating and working together to enshhh you are that any steps that we take with respect to re-opening the economy or relaxing the current rules with respect to self-isolation and physical distancing are done in proper coordination. Now obviously certain provinces and regions will have their own reality and we respect that, of course. But if we can ensure that there is proper coordination so that canadians understand that the same principles are applied across the board, that data has been collected in the same way and that we're analyzing the reality vigilantly and consistently and in a similar manner, then that will maximize our chance of getting through this crisis without finding ourselves in more self-isolation and economic slowdowns.

Reporter:MENT , CANADA'S LARGEST AND OIL GAS LOBBY GROUP SAYS THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOULD CONSIDER SUSPENDING DOZENS OF ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, LAWS AND POLICIES DUE TO THE ECONOMIC AND HEALTH CRISIS TRIGGERED BECOVID-19.CRITICS CALL IT A CRASS ATTEMPT TO EXPLOIT THE PANDEMIC.HOW DO YOU RESPOND TO THE LETTER AND ARE SOME OF THE 30 REQUESTS -- REQUESTS STILL BEING CONSIDERED BY THE GOVERNMENT?

Prime Minister Trudeau:
Just because we are in one crisis right now doesn't mean we can forget about the other cree sister, the climate crisis, that we're also facing as a world, as a country. But we recognize that, for example, moving ahead with the methane regulations something very difficult for companies right now in the oil and gas sector who are strained because of the multiple challenges they're facing both on the global stage and on the lower demand. That is whaoe we are making envestments in supporting those companies directly so they can meet those methane reduction targets, you know, with funds that we're giving them so that we can stay on track to protect future generations and to reduce emissions from our industry. This is something that canadians understand, that we need to continue to move forward. But we need to help people in different ways as we move forward. That will be the lens that we take.

Reporter:
And on a separate matter, china has revised its numbers on the wuhan deaths, increasing them by 50%.is this a statistical verification or proof that they

Covered it suspended senator >> Prime Minister trudeau: we all need to be very attentive to how data flows around the world and be very -- very thoughtful about how we process different information and how we apply the lessons learned from elsewhere around the world to what we do. We'll continue to work with partners and allies and international institutions and organisations. As we figure out how to get through today and tomorrow. But there will be many questions to ask once we're through this on how various countries behaved and what sort of principles we need to learn from and conclusions we need draw.[please stand by] -- holds responsibility for notcontaining it within its b.

(Voice of Translator):
Wewill continue to work withdifferent countries andinternational institutions toensure that we're doingeverything that is necessary toget through this. And after that, there's no doubtthat there will be questionsraised and further reflection. There may even be consequencesfor some countries, depending onhow they behaved during thisglobal crisis. But for the time being, I haveto remain focused on what isimportant for canadians.

SO ARE YOU SUGGESTING, IGUESS, THAT CHINA MAY WITHHOLDP.P.E., IS THAT WHY YOU'RE NOTMENTIONING CHINA AS YOU CONTINUETO DO!AND ON JULIE'S QUESTION ABOUTTHE WAY OUT OF THIS, WHAT LEVELOF TESTING DO WE NEED TO SEEACROSS CANADA IN ORDER TO STARTREOPENING THE ECONOMY?

Prime Minister JustinTrudeau:
We've looked at theneed for many more tests. We see that testing has been akey part of controlling thespread, not just knowing whohas -- who has developed covidand can pass it on, but actuallybeing able to control the spreadthrough contact tracing andthrough isolation and quarantinemeasures, testing is a key partof it. We need to continue to ramp upour testing capacities and weneed to do a better job ofcoordinating on testingmethodology and approachesacross the provinces, so that wecan have a better vision of whatis exactly happening. But testing certainly needs toincrease as we move forward. Fortunately, it is increasing aswe move forward.

[Speaking French](Voice of Translator):RADIO-CANADA.

Question:
(voice oftranslator): about the 125medical personnel from thec. I.f., how many physicians andhow many nurses are in thatnumber?are we taking people away fromcivilian hospitals to do that?and when will they exactly beavailable to go into thelong-term care facilities?

Prime Minister JustinTrudeau:
(voice oftranslator): we'll share thatinformation in the coming hoursbut as early as this afternoonthere's members of the armedforces that will be on theground to assess the kind ofapproach that is needed and whattheir posture will be. And in the coming days, many ofthose 125 personnel will bearriving on the ground inqubec.

Question:
(voice oftranslator): and with respectto the $500 million for artists,who will be getting it, whyisn't it the associationreceiving it?

Prime Minister JustinTrudeau:
(voice oftranslator): well, I want tosay that the ministers will beat a press conference very soonto answer those questions as tohow we're going to be helpingour artists. We know this is a situationwhere many artists are in a realdifficulty and we need ourartists. We need them to continue to makeus dream, particularly in darktimes. That's why we're going to bethere to help them.

(Voice of Translator):THANK YOU, EVERYONE.

Rosemary:
That is the Prime Minister of canada speaking tocanadians on a daily update inthe government's fight againstcovid-19. Another hugeamount of money to helpdifferent canadians in differentsectors in this country. And i'll bring in vassy kapelosand salimah shivji to muddlethrough what we heard there,because there's a lot of it, andwe're waiting for a federalbriefing as well. Let me just say this part thatqubec did ask for additionalhelp from the federal governmentand that has now been negotiatedand confirms that 125 canadianforces members are on their wayto help at long-term carecentres, presumably, to do someof the additional work thatdoctors and the nurses and aideworkers can't do. And they could be there as earlyas this afternoon. So that is significant. But there's just an astoundingamount of money flowing fromfederal coffers right now andi'll say this, that we gotupdated numbers on the cerb,$7 billion so far $25 billionfederal loan programme, the$71 billion wage subsidy. And now today on top of this,vassy, what parts stood out toyou there as highly significant. Oil and gas is probably what youwant to talk about.

Reporter:
I will, if youdon't mind, rosie, zero in onoil and gas. Because as we had discussedprior to this, there's aheightened need for help in thissector, especially for workerswho have been laid off with thedouble whammy of covid-19 andits consequences and then also aprice war that emerged betweensaudi arabia and russia. The announcement from the Prime Minister today somewhatanticipated and geared towardscleaning up what are known asorphan wells in both alberta andsaskatchewan. I think that b. C. as well.$1. 7 billion directed towardsthat, that the government saysthat will help to maintain 5,200 jobs. And they have an emissionreduction fund and combiningthat and that will gospecifically towardsnewfoundland and labrador, butcombining that with the wellsannouncement, that saves ormaintains is the word that theyused about 10,000 jobs. On the orphan wells just toexplain -- basically this is abig problem in alberta. And it has actually been fordecades. Usually an oil company willcome, drill on someone's land. In alberta you have rights toyour land but not to theminerals and the resourcesunderneath them. If that company goes broke, whatended up happening is that manyof the wells then sit thereunclaimed. They're not remediated andcleaned up and thousands of suchwells exist in alberta rightnow. The provincial government hasput some money towards it. The industry has put a littlebit of money towards it. But this by far is the biggestchunk of change that has beendirected towards that. I would highlight one finalthing and that is on the secondpart of what was being asked forby the province of albertaspecifically -- more liquidityfor oil producers. The Prime Minister said thatthey're going to be working withthe bbc, the development banksand the e. D.c., to offer morecredit to small and medium-sizedoil companies. But he did not offer anyspecifics about how much moneythey would be using and if itwould be, in fact, to backstopthose loans. I think that the hint they couldtake from that is not for bigoil companies. So that addresses some of thecriticism that the government isbound to receive that they arein a way subsidizing industry. Obviously, with environmentalconcerns that is sort of avulnerability for them. I think that is aimed ataddressing that possiblecriticism. I just don't know what thatbackstop means, what thatliquidity looks like and therewere no details offered today.

Rosemary:
I would say thatboth of those measures soundinteresting and we'll have to goto the press conference -- bothof the measures, while they werehelping the gas and oilindustry, they also haveenvironmental components to tryto move the government's agendaforward on those components. Salimah, i'll have you talk tothat if this press conferencewraps up because it might never. Thank you both. And let's go now to the pressconference with the ministers. This is the deputy Prime Minister.

The Hon. ChyrstiaFREELAND:
(voice oftranslator): navdeep bains whois joining us remotely as well. Also with us is the deputy chiefpublic health officer,[speaking french](voice of translator):dr. Howard njoo is with us andready to answer your questions.[end of translation]dr. Tam, please.

HELLO, EVERYONE.I'LL BEGIN WITH OUR USUAL UPDATEON THE NUMBER OF COVID-19 CASESIN CANADA.THERE ARE NOW 31,407 CASES,INCLUDING 1,250 DEATHS.FOR THE LAB TESTING WE'VECOMPLETED TESTS FOR OVER 503,000PEOPLE WITH 6% CONFIRMEDPOSITIVE.WITH THE RECENT SLOWDOWN IN THEEPIDEMIC GROWTH, CASE COUNTS ARENOT CLIMBING AS RAPIDLY, HOWEVER, DUE TO THE DISEASE,DEATHS HAVE CLIMBED AS COVID-19TAKES A DEVASTATING TOLL.IT CREATES A BIT OF A PARADOX.WHERE EARLY IN AN EPIDEMIC WESEE A RAPID GROWTH OF INFECTIONSAND NOT SO WITH DEATH.AS THE INFECTIONS SLOW, THEDEATHS GO TO A FASTER PACE.THAT'S WHY THE DEATHS CAN BEUNDERESTIMATED.BUT THERE'S OTHER REASONS SUCHAS WHEN COVID-19 EPIDEMIC ISINTRODUCED INTO SETTINGS WHERETHERE'S MANY OLDER ANDVULNERABLE PEOPLE.I CANNOT STRESS ENOUGH HOWIMPORTANT IT IS TO PROTECT THESEVULNERABLE SETTINGS AND PEOPLE.THIS IS A LONG-STANDING PROBLEM,BUT IT IS NOW INCUMBENT UPON USTO SOLVE IT BY ADDRESSING ALLWEAK POINTS IN OUR SYSTEM.[Speaking French](Voice of Translator):
Tomeasure our progress we musttake into account the evolutionof covid-19 in canada. The nature and the intensity ofspread depends on where you arein the country. Although our four largestprovinces continue to report thebulk of cases in canada, thehighest case numbers have beencoming out of qubec and ontariorecently. That is an important juncture inthe intense public healthefforts that are needed to stampout the existing outbreaks,prevent new outbreaks, and traceand manage chains oftransmission in the community. To get this done withoutslipping backwards, allcanadians need to continue tostay home and to practisephysical distancing.[end of translation]the covid-19 outbreak in canadato be aware of as we measure ourprogress is a differentcharacter and intensity ofspread, depending where you arein the country. Although our four largestprovinces continue to report thebulk of cases in canada, thehighest case numbers have beencoming out of qubec and ontariorecently. At this important juncture theintense public health effortsare needed to stamp out theexisting outbreaks, prevent newoutbreaks, and trace and managethe chains of transmission inthe community. To get this done withoutslipping backwards, allcanadians need to continue tostay at home and to practisephysical distancing. And for news of when and how wemight get into an easing ofthese strict public healthmeasures, some areas willexperience the epidemic slowdownearlier than others, but nomatter where you are in thecountry we've got to rememberthat canadians are highlysusceptible to the virus unlesswe all remain diligent in mainmaintaining our new habits ofphysical distancing and hygiene,new outbreaks can be sparkedanywhere, at any time. So remember this is not asprint, it is a marathon and itwill only be unpleasantsurprises if we quit early. Thank you.

OKAY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH,DR. TAM.AND NOW WE'LL HEAR FROM OURMINISTER OF FINANCE BILLMORNEAU.BILL, PLEASE.

The Hon. Bill Morneau:WELL, THANK YOU VERY MUCH,CHRYSTIA.IT'S GOOD TO BE HERE, EVENREMOTELY TODAY.I THINK THAT AS YOU KNOW AND ASCANADIANS KNOW THAT WE'VE BEENVERY FOCUSED ON SUPPORTINGPEOPLE THROUGH THE COURSE OF ALLOF THE INITIATIVES THAT WE HAVETAKEN ON AN ECONOMIC FRONT.AND TODAY IS PARTICULARLYIMPORTANT IN THAT REGARD.YOU'VE SEEN US PUT FORWARD WAYSTO SUPPORT PEOPLE AT THE CANADAEMERGENCY RESPONSE BENEFIT ANDTHE CANADA EMERGENCY WAGESUBSIDY.WE KNOW THAT SOME ORGINISATIONSHAVE NOT BEEN ABLE TO FULLY GETACCESS TO THOSE PROGRAMMES,INCLUDING THE BUSINESS ACCOUNTFOR SMALL BUSINESSES.SO TODAY WE'RE ANNOUNCING ASIGNIFICANT FUNDING TO HELPTHOSE SMALL BUSINESSES IN THERURAL COMMUNITIES IN PARTICULARTHAT MIGHT NOT GET ACCESS TO THECANADA EMERGENCY BUSINESSACCOUNT OR MAY NOT BE ELIGIBLEFOR THE CANADA EMERGENCY WAGESUBSIDY.WE ALSO KNOW THAT AMONG THEPLACES HARDEST HIT IN OURCOUNTRY ARE THE CULTURAL SECTOR,THE ARTS AND THE CULTURE AND THESPORTS SECTOR.[Speaking French]

Rosemary:
That is our dailybriefing here on cbc. If you want to continue watchinggo to cbc. Ca or continuewatching us on cbc news network. We will be back here most likelytomorrow. I'm rosemary barton. Thank you for watching.()

Rosemary:
I'm rosemarybarton and you're watching cbcnews network or cbc. Ca streamingaround the world. Let's go back to financeminister bill morneau.

The Hon. Bill Morneau:
Thatwould go through heritage canadathat my colleague will betalking about. And we know that there are manystart-up companies, companiesthat are just getting going,that might not be able to haveaccess to the canada emergencywage subsidy or the emergencybusiness account so we'reputting money in that regard aswell towards those firms. I know that my colleague navdeepbains will be talking aboutthat. We also recognize that there's areal importance to supportingjobs in parts of our countrythat have been particularly hardhit. In alberta and saskatchewan andin newfoundland and labrador. So i'm very pleased to talkabout some initiatives todaythat will support people inthose regions, in particular inthe energy sector. We have importantly a programmewhere we're going to providesupport for alberta and insaskatchewan and in britishcolumbia for the remediation oforphaned wells, orphan oilwells. And abandoned oil wells. So we'll be putting this fundingforth to the oil wellsassociation in alberta andtogether with the government inalberta and saskatchewan andbritish columbia, supportingabandoned wells, so that we cancreate employment and also dealwith an environmental problem. We're also moving forward onproviding $750 million in loansto companies -- alberta andsaskatchewan and newfoundlandand labrador -- to reduce theirmethane emissions. So it's going to create jobs. At the same time it allows us toreduce our environmentalsituation. So we're trying to make surethat we're putting moneysomewhere that it will have thebiggest impact both today andover the long term. Finally, what we know is soimportant to -- especially tofirms in the energy sector -- isthey need access to credit. So we're very pleased today totalk about credit on acommercial basis for mid-sizedfirms in the energy sector tohelp them to bridge through areally difficult time and to beable to support their business,but also to support theiremployees. So from that perspective, whatwe're announcing today is verymuch important for jobs,supporting people across thecountry, that might not getaccess to the programmes that wehave announced. And helping people in particularin the energy sector to havesupport so they can have jobs orcreate jobs that will be veryhelpful to places that areparticularly hard hit. And so with that, chrystia, i'llsay thank you, and I lookforward if there's any questionslater.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH, BILL.NOW WE'LL HEAR FROM OUR MINISTEROF NATURAL RESOURCES, SEAMUSO'REGAN, SEAMUS, PLEASE.WE CAN'T HEAR SEAMUS.SEAMUS, WE CAN'T HEAR YOU.HAVE YOU TURNED ON --

IT'S ON.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:PERFECT, WE CAN HEAR YOU NOW.

EVERY TIME, EVERY TIME.THANK YOU.SO EVERY DAY OVER THE PAST FEWWEEKS I HAVE BEEN LISTENING TOWORKERS AND BUSINESS OWNERS ANDTHE INDUSTRY LEADERS IN THEENERGY SECTOR AND LIVING HERE INNEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR I KNOWFIRSTHAND HOW HARD CANADA'SPETROLEUM INDUSTRY HAS BEEN HIT.CANADA IS THE FOURTH LARGESTPRODUCER OF OIL IN THE WORLD.IT IS AN INDUSTRY THAT EMPLOYSOVER 576,000 CANADIANS FROMRIGHT ACROSS THE COUNTRY,INCLUDING 11,000 INDIGENOUSWORKERS.IT IS AN INDUSTRY MADE UP OFMORE THAN 4,500 BUSINESSES, THEVAST MAJORITY OF WHICH ARE SMALLAND MEDIUM-SIZED.IT'S AN INDUSTRY FACING NOT ONEBUT TWO CRISES -- THE IMPANTS OFCOVID-19 AND THE SUBSEQUENT DROPOF GLOBAL DEMAND OF 30% TO 35%AND THE IMPACTS OF A PRICE WARBETWEEN RUSSIA AND SAUDI ARABIATHAT FLOODED THE MARKET WITHUNDERPRICED PRODUCT.MANY OF THE MEASURES THAT WEHAVE ALREADY ANNOUNCED AREHELPING ENERGY COMPANIES ANDTHEIR WORKERS, INCLUDING THECANADA EMERGENCY BUSINESSACCOUNT, AND THE CANADAEMERGENCY WAGE SUBSIDY.INTERNATIONALLY WE'RE WORKINGWITH THE G20, THE INTERNATIONALENERGY AGENCY, AND OUR U.S.PARTNERS, TO BRING PRICESTABILITY TO THE OIL MARKET.TODAY AS BILL POINTED OUT WE'REDOING MORE.OUR GOAL HERE IS TWOFOLD.FIRST, IT ADDRESSES THESHORT-TERM LIQUIDITY NEEDS OFTHESE COMPANIES.THIS IS BOTH INDUSTRY ANDLABOUR, AND THEY HAVE TOLD ME ISTHEIR MOST IMMEDIATE PRIORITY.FIRMS WILL BE ABLE TO STAYAFLOAT FOR WORKERS TO HAVE JOBSTO COME BACK TO.SECONDLY, TO SUPPORT THE ENERGYSECTOR'S TRANSITION TO NET-ZEROWE'RE PROVIDING FUNDING IN TWOAREAS -- CLEANING UP ORPHANEDAND INACTIVE WELLS AND REDUCINGGREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS.ORPHAN AND INACTIVE WELL CLEANUPOFFERS AN OPPORTUNITY TO PUT OURHIGHLY-SKILLED PEOPLE TO WORKRIGHT AWAY.IN ADDITION, NATURAL RESOURCESCANADA WILL PROVIDE $750 MILLIONTO HELP COMPANIES INVEST INTECHNOLOGIES THAT WILL HELP THEMTO REDUCE THEIR METHANEEMISSIONS.AND $75 MILLION OF THIS FUNDINGIS PARTICULARLY EARMARKED FORCAPITAL INVESTMENT AND RESEARCHGEARED TOWARDS EMISSIONREDUCTIONS IN THE OFFSHOREENERGY SECTOR TO MAKE THENEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADORINDUSTRY EVEN MORE COMPETITIVEINTERNATIONALLY.AND WE WILL CONTINUE TO WORKOVER THE WEEKS AHEAD IN OTHERWAYS THAT WE CAN MAINTAIN OURWORKFORCE AND MAKE THEM MORECOMPETITIVE INTERNATIONALLY.THANK YOU, MERCI.BACK TO YOU, CHRYSTIA.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:THANK YOU, SEAMUS.[Speaking French](Voice of Translator):
We'llnow go to stephen guilbeault.

(Voice of Translator):
I'dlike to ask you what are youdoing during physicaldistancing?watching the news, watching amovie, tv?reading a good book?looking at a virtual exhibit?[end of translation]our favourite athletes whoinspire us to get involved insports.[speaking french](voice of translator): thegovernment is very proud toprovide assistance to thesectors. We stand behind those who areusing their passion and theirwork to liven our lives.[end of translation]$100 million to establish acovid-19 emergency support fundfor cultural, heritage andsports orginisations.[speaking french](voice of translator): thegovernment will provide$500 million for orginisationsin culture, heritage andsupport.[end of translation]the targeted measure willprovide financial support thatis consistent with the existingcovid-19 support members forwage and fixed costs fororginisations. It will be administered bycanadian heritage with thesupport of many partners such asthe canada council for the arts.[speaking french](voice of translator):minister guilbeault. We'll be working with the sectorto fine-tune this aid. We are doing our utmost torespond to your concerns, yourmost pressing concerns, toensure your survival, stability,and to let canadians continue tohave access to cultural contentand sports, which are the bestin the world.[end of translation]canada day this year will behosted virtually.[speaking french](voice of translator):minister guilbeault. Together in a virtualenvironment, we will celebrateour strength and resilience aswell as our values at canadaday. Our creators and athletes areproviding us with a number ofexamples of inspiration andsolidarity.[end of translation]we are reminded each day howfortunate we are to have suchtalent here in canada. Merci.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:MERCI, STEVEN.WE'LL NOW GO TO MINISTER JOLY.MINISTER JOLY?

(Voice of Translator):
Inrecent weeks I had anopportunity to have discussionswith a number of heads ofchambers of commerce across thecountry, to montral, qubec,moncton and edmonton. What they've all said is thatthis crisis is hitting themhard. They've shared their concernswith me, their realities, theiranxiety, and we have heard themessage. Our objective today inconjunction with the minister offinance, is to protect ourstreets, our small communities. We are doubling the budget ofour economic developmentagencies across the country, soessentially $1 billion inadditional funding will go tothese development agenciesacross the country. Be it in the east, the middle ofcanada, the west or the north. What we've heard is that accessto financial institutions isoftentimes more difficult, soour objective is this -- we wantto prevent entrepreneurs fromfalling through the cracks whenthey have critical roles to playin their communities. Through our development andcommunity futures orginisations,which do excellent work on theground, we will be in a positionto help companies to have accessto various government measuresto help them to make it throughthe crisis. The development agencies incanada work locally and bringthe government into thecommunities and defend theeconomic reality there. It's also responsible forhelping during crises. As it has in the past in fortmcmurray, for example, duringthe fires.[end of translation]we have discussions withbusiness owners via differentchambers of commerce from surreyto charlottetown and, of course,saskatoon and st. John's. And we know the crisis ishitting hard. We heard many of the businessowners' anxieties andpreoccupations and we are --we've heard -- our mainobjective today is to make surethat we protect our main streetsall across the country. This is why we're answering thecall by nearly doubling thebudget of our different regionaldevelopment agencies across thiscountry, from atlantic canada toqubec, ontario, the west andnorthern territories. The idea is to provide tobusinesses, to support thebusinesses that may be fallingthrough the cracks and areplaying vital roles within theircommunities. We're doing also another thingby making sure that we'reincreasing the budget of ourorginisations that are key toour local businesses and the aimis to make sure that we supportthem while they're doing greatwork on the ground. So the mission of the agenciesis to make sure that the eyesand the ears of the federalgovernment are on the ground,and they're always there intimes of crisis, to deal withmaybe the fort mcmurray firesor the lac-megantic tragedy. So what we're saying to businessowners today across this countryis that we've got your back.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, THANK YOU VERY MUCH,MELANIE.AND NOW OUR MINISTER OFINNOVATION AND SCIENCE ANDINDUSTRY NAVDEEP BAINS, NOW,PLEASE.

THANK YOU VERY MUCH,CHRYSTIA.IN EVERY INDUSTRY AND SECTOR,COMPANIES ARE STEPPING UP TOLEND A HAND WHEREVER POSSIBLE.[Speaking French](Voice of Translator):MINISTER BAINS.COMPANIES ARE COMING AND HELPINGPEOPLE AS MUCH AS THEY CAN.[end of translation]CANADIAN BUSINESSES AND HIGHLYSKILLED INNOVATORS THAT WE WILLHELP IN THIS PERIOD OFUNCERTAINTY.YOU KNOW, DURING THE NORMALCOURSE OF THINGS, ONE OF THEIMPORTANT ROLES OF GOVERNMENT ISPROVIDING ECONOMIC SUPPORT TOHIGH POTENTIAL INNOVATIVE FIRMSIN THE EARLY STAGES OFDEVELOPMENT.ESPECIALLY IN A COUNTRY LIKECANADA WHERE SCIENCE ANDINNOVATION ARE OUR STRENGTHS.TIME AND TIME AGAIN WE'VEINNOVATED SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZEDCOMPANIES TO BECOME KEY ECONOMICDRIVERS FOR LONG-TERM GROWTH INGOOD QUALITY JOBS FOR ALLCANADIANS.WE SOMETIMES CALL THEM THEFUTURE GAZELLES OF CANADA'SECONOMY.SINCE THEY END UP PUTTING CANADALEAPS AND BOUNDS AHEAD OF THECOMPETITION.NOW GOVERNMENT IS IN A UNIQUEPOSITION OF BEING ABLE TOPROTECT THESE IMPORTANTCOMPANIES AND THE HIGHLY SKILLEDPEOPLE THEY EMPLOY THROUGH THENATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCILSINDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ASSISTANCEPROGRAMME.CALLED IRAP.THESE INNOVATIVE COMPANIESCONTRIBUTE DISPROPORTIONATELYMORE TO THE SUCCESS OF THECANADIAN ECONOMY.BUT RIGHT NOW MANY ARE FACINGREAL CHALLENGES BECAUSE OF THEECONOMIC DOWNTURN RESULTING FROMCOVID-19.THEY'RE LOOKING AT SUPPLY CHAINDISRUPTIONS, CASH FLOW ISSUES, ACOLLAPSE IN DEMAND, AND,THEREFORE, AN INABILITY TOMAINTAIN STAFF TO PERFORMRESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.AND WE'VE HEARD FROM THESTART-UP COMMUNITY THAT SOME OFTHESE EARLY STAGE FIRM DOES NOTQUALIFY FOR THE WAGE SUBSIDY ORBUSINESS LIQUIDITY MEASURES THATWE ANNOUNCED.WE'VE HEARD THE CALL FOR HELPFROM THE CANADIAN BUSINESSCOMMUNITY.AND TODAY WE'RE ANSWERING IT BYINJECTING $250 MILLION INTO THEINDUSTRIAL RESEARCH ASSISTANCEPROGRAMME.THIS IS AN INVESTMENT TO PROTECTCANADA'S HIGHLY SKILLEDINNOVATORS.THIS SUPPORT WILL BE TARGETED TOCOMPANIES IDENTIFIED ASSTRATEGIC TO THE CANADIANECONOMY, IMPACTED BY COVID-19.WHETHER THEY ARE PRE-REVENUE ORNOT.[Speaking French](Voice of Translator):MINISTER BAINS.THIS ASSISTANCE WILL HELPSTRATEGIC COMPANIES.[end of translation]I ENCOURAGE ANY TECHNOLOGY ORINNOVATION-BASED BUSINESS THATIS UNABLE TO ACCESS THE CURRENTSUPPORT MEASURES TO GO ON TO THENATIONAL RESEARCH COUNCIL'SWEBSITE TODAY.AND THEY'LL BE ABLE TO SIGN UPTO BE NOTIFIED WHEN THEAPPLICATION OPENS UP EARLY NEXTWEEK.WITH TODAY'S ANNOUNCEMENT WEEXPECT TO SUPPORT OVER 1,000CANADIAN INNOVATIVE FIRMS ANDMAINTAIN 10,000 CANADIAN JOBSOVER THE NEXT THREE MONTHS.FUNDING WILL BEGIN TO BEDELIVERED WITHIN A MATTER OFDAYS.WHEN WE SUPPORT EARLY STAGEFIRMS, WE'RE NOT ONLY PROTECTINGTHE NEXT GENERATION OF CANADIANENTREPRENEURS, BUT ALSO THEPEOPLE THEY EMPLOY.AND WE MAKE SURE THAT CANADA'SBEST TECHNOLOGY AND RESEARCHSTAYS IN CANADA.THANK YOU.MERCI.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:THANK YOU VERY MUCH, NAV.AND WE'RE NOW READY TO TAKE YOURQUESTIONS.

THANK YOU, DEPUTY PRIMEMINISTER.SO WE'LL START WITH THREEQUESTIONS ON THE PHONE AND TURNTO THE ONE, AND ONE QUESTION ANDONE FOLLOW-UP.[Speaking French]

Question:
Thank you. Merci. Our first question... fromradio-canada. Please go ahead.

Question:
(voice oftranslator): journalist. Mr. Guilbeault, can you give usmore details on the assistancethat you'll provide to thecultural and the sportsindustries, who will the moneygo to?how will it assist?go to the sports associations?to the athletes morespecifically?

(Voice of Translator):ANSWER.THANK YOU, MADAM.THE FUNDING GOES TO THEORGINISATIONS.OUR SECTOR IS DIFFERENT IN THATIT IS BASED -- OR MADE UP OF,RATHER, OF PEOPLE WHO AREINDEPENDENT WORKERS.SO THEY'RE NOT EMPLOYEES.FOR WHOM THE WAGE SUBSIDY WOULDHAVE APPLIED.SO WE'RE TALKING ABOUTNOT-FOR-PROFIT ORGINISATIONS,SPORTS ORGINISATIONS AT THENATIONAL LEVEL, SPORTS CENTRES,MEDIA ORGINISATIONS, EDITORS,COMPANIES, TV COMPANIES, MUSICGROUPS.AND THE PROGRAMMES THAT WE HAVEALREADY ANNOUNCED WEREN'TTAILORED FOR THEM AND DIDN'TTAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE SPECIFICNATURE OF THE ARTS AND CULTUREAND SPORTING SECTOR.

[Speaking French]

Question:
(voice oftranslator): follow-upquestion. Minister joly, can you tell us alittle bit more about theannouncement that you've made. You have talked aboutmunicipalities in various townsand villages across the country. There are companies there, arethose companies not eligible forthe programmes that you'veannounced?and pwhat type of assistancewill you be offering.

(Voice of Translator):ANSWER.WHAT WE HAVE OFFERED THROUGHGOVERNMENT MEASURES RECENTLY AREA SAFETY NET.AND WHAT WE'RE DOING NOW ISENSURING THAT NO ONE IS FALLINGTHROUGH THE CRACKS.SO WE'RE TIGHTENING IT UP.WE KNOW, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT THE$40,000 LOAN AND THE WAGESUBSIDY HAVE IMPACTS FOR MANYCOMPANIES.THERE ARE SOME THAT STILL DON'THAVE ACCESS TO THAT FUNDING.SO THE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENTAGENCIES WILL BE PROVIDINGASSISTANCE.THE DEVELOPMENT AGENCY INQUBEC, FOR EXAMPLE, IT'S CALLEDDECK, AND THESE AGENCIES PROVIDEASSISTANCE IN SMALLERCOMMUNITIES IN QUBEC, FOREXAMPLE, AND ACROSS THE COUNTRY.SO THEY'RE ON THE GROUND ANDTHEY WILL BE HELPING TO PROVIDEASSISTANCE TO SMALL LOCALBUSINESSES IN THOSE AREAS.

(Voice of Translator):THANK YOU, MINISTER.

OUR NEXT QUESTION [SpeakingFrench]TERESA WRIGHT WITH CANADIANPRESS.PLEASE GO AHEAD.[Speaking French]

Question:
Good morning. Dr. Tam, i'm wondering if youcould tell us if there's anyguidance for health workers anddoctors on how ventilatorsshould be rationed, if it comesto that. And if anyone is working on anysuch guidelines?

YES, SO THIS ALLOCATION OFTHE SUPPLIES HAS A DIFFERENTFRAMEWORK AND THAT'S INCOLLABORATION WITH THE PROVINCESAND THE TERRITORIES IN TERMS OFTHE SUPPLIES OF VENTILATORS THATWE HAVE.NOW ON THE GROUND, PHYSICIANSAND OTHER HEALTH WORKERS HAVE TOMAKE SOME VERY DIFFICULTDECISIONS SOMETIMES IF THERE WASNOT ENOUGH VENTILATORS OR I.C.U.BEDS.SO THOSE GUIDANCES HAVE BEEN PUTIN PLACE AT THE PROVINCIAL ANDTHE TERRITORIAL LEVEL.AND, CERTAINLY, THAT FLOWS DOWNTO THE HOSPITAL LEVEL.SO THAT YOU HAVE THESE ANDTHEY'RE DRAFTED BY A BROAD RANGEOF EXPERTS, INCLUDING ETHICISTSAND CLINICAL AND I.C.U. ANDOTHER EXPERTS AND HEALTH SYSTEMEXPERTS, SO THAT THOSE DIFFICULTDECISIONS CAN BE FACILITATED ATTHE TIME THAT THEY'RE NEEDED.

FOLLOW-UP?

Question:
Yes, and myfollow-up question is forminister morneau. Many people on social assistanceprogrammes are surviving on lessthan people getting the cerb. And many marginalized canadiansjust can't access it. So rather than continue to tweakit as you have been doing, whynot just make the cerbuniversal?

The Hon. Bill Morneau:WELL, THANK YOU FOR THEQUESTION.I THINK THAT IT'S IMPORTANT TOACKNOWLEDGE THAT THERE ARECERTAINLY PEOPLE WHO AREEXPERIENCING REAL CHALLENGES.WE UNDERSTAND THAT.WHAT WE'VE BEEN TRYING TO DOTHROUGH THE COURSE OF THISCRISIS PERIOD IS TO ADDRESS THEPEOPLE WHO HAVE LOST THEIRINCOME, WHO HAVE LOST THEIRABILITY TO CONTINUE TO LEAD THELIFE THEY WERE LEADING BEFORETHE CRISIS AS A RESULT OFCOVID-19.SO THAT'S HOW WE'VE DIRECTED OURATTENTION.THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT IT'SIMPACTING THE MEASURES THAT WEHAVE PUT FORWARD ARE REALLYHAVING A BIG IMPACT.AS YOU KNOW WE HAVE SEENLITERALLY MILLIONS, MORE THANFIVE MILLION PEOPLE, COME ON THECANADA EMERGENCY RESPONSEBENEFIT.WE AS OF YESTERDAY HAD MORE THAN220,000 SMALL FIRMS THAT APPLIEDFOR THE CANADA EMERGENCYBUSINESS ACCOUNT.SO THE MEASURES THAT WE'RETAKING ARE HAVING VERY, VERYWIDE APPLICATION.AS YOU SEE TODAY WE'RE TRYING TOMAKE SURE THAT FOR PLACESWHERE -- IN PARTICULAR FORBUSINESSES THAT EMPLOY PEOPLEWHERE THEY NEED ADDITIONALSUPPORT, WE'RE COMING FORWARD TOMAKE SURE THAT WE PROVIDE THATSUPPORT.

THANK YOU, MINISTER.OPERATOR, NEXT QUESTION, PLEASE.

THANK YOU.MERCI.OUR NEXT QUESTION, [SpeakingFrench]PLEASE GO AHEAD.

Question:
(voice oftranslator): journalist. I'm not sure who to put myquestion to, but anyone cananswer it. It deals with soldiers beingsent in to help out in qubec. In the "maclean's" article, adoctor who served in the forcestalked about some 2,500 soldierswho are trained that could beavailable but there's a problemwith respect to theirqualifications in qubec and inontario. Is there some way to make anexception so that more than --these particular soldiers can beused to provide assistance?

The Hon. ChyrstiaFREELAND:
(voice oftranslator): minister freeland,answer. The decision to respond toqubec's request that went tothe Prime Minister is animportant one. It's a decision that was made inclose cooperation with qubec,the canadian forces, theminister of public safety, theminister of health, the ministerof defence. We worked hard to identify thenecessary people with thelanguage skills, the trainingrequired, to help in qubec. We identified 125 people and adecision was made in conjunctionwith qubec. And these people will make adifference. With respect to providingadditional assistance, wecontinue to hold ongoingdiscussions with qubec. We are working with qubec tosupport the province. I'd also like to add that thePrime Minister has stated thatwe will be working with the redcross and we'll also help inqubec. And then there are the volunteers who have registered,so we'll also be working withthat list of people to identifythose who can help. Thank you.

(Voice of Translator):FOLLOW-UP QUESTION.WHAT ABOUT THE VOLUNTEERS?CAN YOU GIVE US AN IDEA OF HOWMANY MORE PEOPLE COULD BE SENTTO QUBEC FROM THE RED CROSSTHEN?AND FROM THAT LIST OF VOLUNTEERS.

The Hon. ChyrstiaFREELAND:
(voice oftranslator): answer, ministerfreeland. At this point, no. What I do want to underscore isthat it is essential to work inclose cooperation with theprovince. We are doing this work togetherand i'd also like to assurequbecers that we fullyunderstand the urgency of thesituation. And we are working very hard tofind the resources to helpqubecers.

THANK YOU, MINISTER.STARTING WITH DAVID THURTON,CBC.

Question:
The woes in the oiland gas sector isn't going awayanytime soon, so some people areprobably wondering if there'sgoing to be anymore help on theway?and can you maybe walk usthrough the range of things thatyou're thinking of, ministermorneau, minister regan?

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:I'M GOING TO -- JUST BECAUSEWITH ALL OF THE PEOPLE ON THESCREENS IT REQUIRES A BIT OFTRAFFIC ACTIVITY.SO I'M GOING TO TURN TO SEAMUSFIRST, IS THAT OKAY, DAVID?

Question:
That's fine.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, SEAMUS, PLEASE.YOU NEED TO TURN YOUR MIKE BACKON.

A LOT OF WHAT BILL HASALREADY PUT IN PLACE HAS A VERYPOSITIVE EFFECT WITH THE CERBAND WITH THE WAGE SUBSIDYPARTICULARLY.I MEAN, WHAT WE'RE ANNOUNCINGTODAY ARE VERY PARTICULARINITIATIVES.FIRSTLY, WHAT I'VE HEARD FROMALL SIDES, WHETHER IT BE --WHETHER IT BE LABOUR OR WHETHERIT BE INDUSTRY, EVERYBODY ISTALKED ABOUT LIQUIDITY.I REMEMBER MY FIRST MEETINGAFTER THE LOCKDOWN WITH THEPETROLEUM PRODUCERS AND SAYINGTHAT THEIR TOP FIVE PRIORITIESWERE LIQUIDITY, LIQUIDITY,LIQUIDITY, LIQUIDITY.WE HEARD THE SAME FROM WORKERS.SO THIS IS, YOU KNOW, REALLYIMPORTANT FOR SMALL TOMEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES.I THINK THAT THERE'S APERCEPTION THAT THE INDUSTRY ISDOMINATED BY MASSIVE CAPITALPROJECTS, BIG OIL RIGS, MILES OFPIPELINE.IN FACT, IT'S DOMINATED BY SMALLTO MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES ANDTHAT'S ROUGHLY ABOUT 85% OF THEWORKFORCE IS.AND SO CONCENTRATING ON THEMRIGHT NOW IS A VERY GOOD THING.I'LL SEND THE REST OVER TO BILL.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, BILL.

The Hon. Bill Morneau:REALLY I THINK THAT SEAMUS GAVEA GOOD INDICATION.AND WRIT LARGE ACROSS THECOUNTRY WHAT WE'RE SEEING ISTHAT THERE ARE BUSINESSES ACROSSTHE COUNTRY THAT NEED ACCESS TOCREDIT DURING A CHALLENGINGTIME.WHAT WE'RE ANNOUNCING TODAY ISTHAT THE ENERGY SECTOR ISPARTICULARLY CHALLENGED, ANDTHAT'S WHY THAT IS SO IMPORTANT.THE OTHER INITIATIVES THAT WEHAVE PUT IN PLACE TODAY -- THEABILITY TO REMEDIATE ORPHANEDWELLS AND ABANDONED WELLS, TOREDUCE OUR METHANE EMISSIONS,THESE ARE GOING TO GET PEOPLEWORKING.IT'S ABOUT JOBS IN PLACES WHEREWE DON'T HAVE ACCESS TO JOBS.SO I THINK THAT THIS ISCRITICALLY IMPORTANT FOR PEOPLEIN THOSE PLACES WHERE THEY'RESEEING EXTREME CHALLENGES.WE NEED TO RECOGNIZE THAT WEWILL HAVE OTHER MEASURES TOPROVIDE CREDIT ACROSSMEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES ANDLARGER BUSINESSES.AND THERE'S MORE FOR US TO TALKABOUT IN THAT REGARD IN COMINGDAYS.

Question:
Okay, thank you. And this question is from one ofmy colleagues. She's asking, we know thatcontact tracing is important inthe fight against the spread ofcovid-19. Minister bains, what discussionsare you having at the federallevel about using technology tofacilitate that?and are there any conversationsabout using cellphone data?

THANK YOU VERY MUCH, THANKYOU VERY MUCH FOR THAT QUESTION.AS WE'VE INDICATED, ALL OPTIONSARE ON THE TABLE.WE'RE GOING TO DEPLOY ALL OF THETOOLS THAT WE NEED TO MAKE SURETHAT WE PROTECT CANADIANS'HEALTH AND WELL-BEING.RIGHT NOW WE'RE FOCUSED ONECONOMIC MEASURES.WE ARE EVALUATING DIFFERENTSOLUTIONS WITH RESPECT TOPROVIDING MORE INFORMATION TOCANADIANS ON BETTER PRACTICES TOFOLLOW, SOCIAL DISTANCING,PHYSICAL DISTANCING, MAKING SURETHAT THEY TAKE THOSE APPROPRIATESTEPS TO KEEP THEMSELVES SAFE.WITH RESPECT TO CONTACT TRACINGWE'RE LOOKING AT OTHERJURISDICTIONS.WE WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT IF WEARE MOVING FORWARD IN THAT AREATHAT WE ALSO DEAL WITH ISSUESWITH RESPECT TO PRIVACY IN AMEANINGFUL WAY.STILL EARLY STAGES AND WE HAVEENGAGED WITH A ROBUST GROUP OFPEOPLE ACROSS THE COUNTRY THATARE WORKING ON SOME EARLY STAGETECHNOLOGY PROJECTS.BUT WE HAVEN'T MADE ANY FINALDETERMINATION IN TERMS OF WHATWE WANT TO SUPPORT AND TO MOVEFORWARD WITH.BUT WE HAVE SOME CREDIBLEINNOVATIVE COMPANIES ACROSS THECOUNTRY THAT ARE STEPPING UPTHAT I ARE THINKING THROUGHTHESE CHALLENGES AND WE AREENGAGED WITH THEM.

Question:
Thank you, ministerbains. Mike?

Question:
Good morning,dr. Tam. How would you charactericize thecountry and what are thedifferences between qubec andthe prairies and the maritimes?

I THINK THAT THE MAJORITY OFTHE CASES AS I SAID ARE IN THEFOUR BIGGEST JURISDICTIONS,PERHAPS NOT SURPRISINGLY.AND THAT DIFFERENT VARIATIONS INTERMS OF THE ACTUALEPIDEMIOLOGY.HOWEVER, I WOULD HAVE TO SAYTHAT THE LONG-TERM CARE HOMES ORSENIORS' RESIDENCES OUTBREAKSARE IN QUITE A NUMBER OF THEMAND THAT'S WHAT IS DRIVING SOMEOF THE UNFORTUNATE INCREASE INDEATHS.SO THE BIGGER JURISDICTIONS,PARTICULARLY RIGHT NOW INONTARIO AND QUBEC.BUT, YEAH, I THINK THAT THEMARCH BREAK AS I SAID MIGHT HAVEHAD SOME DIFFERENT -- ADIFFERENCE IN TIMING OF SOME OFTHE EPIDEMIC TRAJECTORIES.SOME JURISDICTIONS HAVEIMPLEMENTED MEASURES AND HAVEN'TACTUALLY GOTTEN THE COMMUNITYTRANSMISSION.SO SOME OF THE SMALLERJURISDICTIONS AND THETERRITORIES, THEY'VE MANAGED TOPICK UP ALL OF THE IMPORTEDCASES AND PREVENTED ONWARDTRANSMISSION AND DID CONTACTTRACING.SO THEY'RE ACTUALLY QUITEDIFFERENT.

Question:
And this is for --well, i'll ask and see who wantsto answer. Does this suggest that there's adifferent approach that we couldtake to re-starting the country,depending what province we'redealing with?

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:THANKS FOR THE QUESTION, MIKE.AND LET ME JUST SAY THAT THEQUESTION OF -- THE ECONOMICIMPACT OF THE LOCKDOWN WASABSOLUTELY DISCUSSED AT THEFIRST MINISTERS -- ON THE FIRSTMINISTERS' CALL WITH THE PRIMEMINISTER LAST NIGHT.AND ALL OF THE PREMIERS SHAREDTHE VERY DIVERSE EXPERIENCEACROSS THE COUNTRY AND SPOKEBOTH ABOUT THE DIVERSEAPPROACHES THAT PEOPLE ARETAKING TO FIGHTING THECORONAVIRUS.AND THE CALL IS VERY USEFUL THATWAY BECAUSE PEOPLE CAN SHAREBEST PRACTISE.AND THEY SPOKE ABOUT THEDIFFERENT PLACES THAT THEY AREIN FLATTENING THE CURVE ANDABOUT HOW THAT WAS SHAPING THEIROWN VIEWS ABOUT STEPS -- NEXTSTEPS TO TAKE.WHAT I WILL SAY IS THAT WE AS ACOUNTRY, OF COURSE, WE NEED TOUNDERSTAND THAT WE ARE A HUGE,HUGE COUNTRY.AND, THEREFORE, UNDERSTANDABLYVERY, VERY DIVERSE.AS DR. TAM HAS JUST SAID.ONE THING THAT WE HAVE IN COMMONTHOUGH IS THAT EVERY SINGLECANADIAN HAS MADE A HUGESACRIFICE ALREADY IN FIGHTINGTHE CORONAVIRUS.THAT SACRIFICE IS STARTING TOPAY OFF.AS WE HEARD FROM DR. TAM EARLIERTHIS WEEK, OVERALL IN THE WHOLECOUNTRY THAT IT IS NOW POSSIBLETO BE I THINK AS DR. TAM PUT IT,EVER SO SLIGHTLY CAUTIOUSLYOPTIMISTIC THAT WE ARE ACHIEVINGSOME KIND OF FLATTENING.WHAT IS SO ESSENTIAL FOR US ALLIS NOT TO SQUANDER THATACHIEVEMENT.WE HAVE ALL PAID TOO HIGH APRICE ALREADY TO THROW IT AWAY.AND SO WHAT I CAN SAY ON BEHALFOF THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ISTHAT WE BELIEVE REALLY STRONGLYTHAT WE NEED TO BE REALLY,REALLY CAREFUL, REALLYDELIBERATE, AND REALLYTHOUGHTFUL ABOUT NEXT STEPS.ABOVE ALL, LET'S REMEMBER THATWE'VE PAID A REALLY HIGH PRICEALREADY AND LET'S BE SURE THATTHE SACRIFICES THAT WE HAVE MADEARE NOT WASTED.

Question:
Good afternoon,this question is directed todeputy Prime Minister freelandand dr. Tam. With concerns about the lack oftransparency from china in thestart of this outbreak, thedeath toll in wuhan hasincreased by 50% in a recentrevision from the chineseauthorities. How has the inaccuracy of thedata and the suppression of theinformation about the outbreakin china affected canada'sresponse to this crisis?

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:I'LL LET DR. TAM START AND I'MHAPPY TO OFFER A RESPONSE ASWELL.

YEAH, I THINK THAT I'VE JUSTBEEN MADE AWARE OF THE NUMBERS.AND I THINK, YOU KNOW, I'MREALLY KEEN TO LEARN FURTHERABOUT WHAT THAT MEANS.IT'S SUCH A RAPIDLY EVOLVINGSITUATION, BUT I THINK THAT ITIS IMPORTANT GLOBALLY TOUNDERSTAND THE FULL SPECTRUM OFTHE ILLNESS.SO I THINK THAT GETTING FURTHERCLARIFICATION IS IMPORTANT.OF COURSE, YOU KNOW, WE ACTUALLYHAVE TO HAVE AN UNDERSTANDINGFROM EVERY COUNTRY AS MUCH ASPOSSIBLE SO THAT IT ACTUALLYHELPS US WITH SOME OF OURACTIONS GOING FORWARD.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:AND I WOULD JUST ADD TO THAT,THAT FIRST AND FOREMOST THE VERYDIFFICULT DECISIONS THAT WE HAVEHAD TO TAKE AS A COUNTRY INRESPONSE TO THIS GLOBAL PANDEMICARE BASED FIRST AND FOREMOST ONCANADIAN DATA.AND ON THE CANADIAN REALITY.AND THOSE ARE DECISIONS TAKEN BYCANADIAN POLITICAL LEADERSINFORMED BY THE BEST EXPERTADVICE THAT WE CAN GET.OUR PRIMARY JOB IS FIGHTING ITHERE AT HOME.AND WE MAKE OUR BATTLE PLANSBASED ON WHAT IS HAPPENING ONTHE GROUND HERE IN CANADA.OF COURSE THE ACTIONS THAT WETAKE IN CANADA ARE INFORMED BYWHAT WE ARE SEEING AROUND THEWORLD, AND WE CONSULT, INCLUDINGAT A POLITICAL LEVEL, WIDELYWITH COLLEAGUES AND PARTNERSAROUND THE WORLD.OUR MINISTER OF HEALTHPARTICIPATES IN A G7 HEALTHMINISTERS' CALL WHICH IS WEEKLY.I HAVE SPOKEN TO THE DEPUTYPRIME MINISTER OF SINGAPORE, WHOHAPPENS TO BE A FRIEND.AND I THINK THAT THE SINGAPOREANEXPERIENCE IS VERY VALUABLE FORUS.AND THEN JUST A FINAL THING THATI WOULD ADD IS THAT BECAUSE THISPANDEMIC POSES SUCH A THREAT TOOUR COUNTRY, IT IS ABSOLUTELYAPPROPRIATE FOR OUR RESPONSE TOBE INFORMED BY THE BESTINTELLIGENCE THAT WE CAN GET,AND OUR RESPONSE IS INFORMED BYCANADA'S EXCELLENT INTELLIGENCEEXPERTS WHO ARE A VERY IMPORTANTPART OF THE WORK THAT THEGOVERNMENT IS DOING AND HAVEBEEN BRIEFING THE GOVERNMENT ANDTHE MINISTERS.THEY, OF COURSE, WORK FIRST ANDFOREMOST WITH OUR CLOSESTSECURITY PARTNERS.THE FIVE EYES AND NATO AND NORADAND THE ADVICE IS INFORMED BYTHE INFORMATION SHARED ANDCOLLECTED TOGETHER BY THATCOMMUNITY.

Question:
As a follow-up. Just how is it best to moveforward with all of these thingsbeing, what you said off thecourse, the data that you'relooking at from other countries,including china, thatrelationship that you had withother countries when you'retrying to combat a globalpandemic. Are there any concerns that thechinese cooperation and the lackof access of the informationcoming out of china, you know,could have in any ways affectcanadian researchers that arecooperating with the lab inwuhan, for example?is there any concern about thatin terms of combating the spreadof this pandemic?and devising ways to stop it.

WELL, I THINK THAT GLOBALCOLLABORATION ON SCIENTIFICDISCOVERY AND RESEARCH IS REALLYIMPORTANT AND IT CAN BE IN ANYAREA LIKE DIAGNOSTICS ANDTREATMENT.SO I THINK THAT AS MUCH GLOBALCOLLABORATION AS POSSIBLE ISIMPORTANT.IN TERMS OF OUR RESEARCH, I KNOWTHAT OUR COLLEAGUES AT THECANADIAN INSTITUTE OF HEALTHRESEARCH HAD LOOKED AT THE WAYTHAT OUR GOVERNMENT PROJECT ISFUNDED IS BASED ON PEER REVIEW,AND THAT PROCESS IS INDEPENDENT.SO I THINK WE HAVE TO RELY ONTHE SCIENTIFIC PROCESSES ITSELFAS TO WHETHER THE PROJECTS AREWORTHY OF FUNDING.AND I THINK -- AND MANYPROJECTS, ACTUALLY, INVOLVE MANYCOUNTRIES.SO THERE'S QUITE A NUMBER OFPROJECTS FUNDED IN CANADA THATINVOLVES NOT JUST CHINA, BUTMULTI-COUNTRY APPROACHES.SO I THINK THAT WE'RE GOING TOGET THE SOLUTIONS FAST.YOU STILL HAVE A CONSTRUCT.BUT THE BOTTOM LINE IS THAT THEYARE PEER REVIEWEDSCIENTIFICALLY, VALIDATED BEFOREFUNDING IS PROVIDED.

THANK YOU, DOCTOR.WE'LL NOW TURN BACK TO THEPHONE.OPERATOR.

THANK YOU.MERCI.OUR NEXT QUESTION [SpeakingFrench]PLEASE GO AHEAD.YOUR LINE IS NOW OPEN.

Question:
(voice oftranslator): marie kastelle. I have a question for ministerregan and morneau.[end of translation]mr. Regan, i'm worried whatfurther help could come for theoil industry?and many were asking and maybeeven expecting that thegovernment do more -- forexample, by taking equity sharesinto oil companies as thegovernment did in 2008 withautomobile companies. I'm wondering if the governmentis considering that?and, if not, why not?and minister morneau, I don'tknow if this was related tothat, but you sort of alluded tothe credit for medium-sizedbusinesses. I wonder if you could elaborateon what you were suggesting?

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:SEAMUS, IF YOU WANT TO START ANDREMEMBER TO UNMUTE YOURSELF.

IT'S OPEN AND I HAVE LEARNEDMY LESSON TWICE OVER.THANK YOU, DEPUTY PRIMEMINISTER.THE FOCUS TODAY WAS ON WORKERS.I THINK THAT IF YOU LOOK AT OURINITIATIVES IN ANY SECTOR OR ANYBENEFIT, THAT WE HAVE -- WE HAVECHANGED OVER TIME.I MEAN, BILL HAS BEEN MAKING,YOU KNOW, TWEAKS AND CHANGES TOALMOST EVERYTHING THAT WE HAVEINTRODUCED.SO NOTHING QUITE LOOKS THE SAME,BECAUSE WE'RE LISTENING TOCANADIANS AND WE'RE LISTENING TOSTAKEHOLDERS AND MAKING CHANGESWHERE IT'S NEEDED.TODAY WAS FOCUSED ON WORKERS INTWO FASHIONS.FIRST OF ALL, LIQUIDITY, TO MAKESURE THAT THE COMPANIES THATHIRE THOSE WORKERS REMAIN INTACTSO THEY CAN KEEP THOSE WORKERS.AND, SECONDLY, WITH ORPHANED ANDINACTIVE WELLS, THIS IS, YOUKNOW, TECHNICAL WORK,HIGHLY-SKILLED WORK.WE THINK THAT --

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:I DON'T THINK THAT YOU HAVEMUTED YOURSELF, BUT THETECHNOLOGY IS MUTING YOU, SEAMUS.LET'S PAUSE FOR A MOMENT.OKAY, I'M SORRY, SEAMUS, WECAN'T HEAR YOU HERE.MAYBE TRY AGAIN.YOU SAID HIGHLY-SKILLED WORKERS,THAT WAS THE LAST PHRASE THAT WEHEARD.

IN SPEAKING ABOUT ORPHAN ANDINACTIVE WELLS, YES.THESE ARE HIGHLY-SKILLEDWORKERS, YOU KNOW, THAT WE THINKTHAT CAN EMPLOY UPWARDS OF 5,000PEOPLE AND GETTING THEM WORKINGRIGHT AWAY BECAUSE THEY'REALREADY DEEMED TO BE ESSENTIALWORKERS.IT HAS THE ADDED BENEFIT,OBVIOUSLY, AND AN ENVIRONMENTALBENEFIT IN CLEANING UP THESEWELLS.SO IT'S IN KEEPING WITH OURENVIRONMENTAL PRIORITIES AND OURCOMMITMENT TO NET ZERO.

The Hon. Chyrstia Freeland:OKAY, THANK YOU.AND MAYBE NOW, BILL, WOULD YOULIKE TO ANSWER THE PART OF THEQUESTION DIRECTED AT YOU ANDCOULD YOU -- THERE WE GO.WE SEE YOU NOW.

The Hon. Bill Morneau:
Thekey -- the key thing that we'veheard from businesses across thecountry really is that they needaccess to credit. We've got a particular challengewhere businesses are either notoperating or operating withsignificantly less revenue for aperiod of time. And they need credit to getthrough that time. So that's why we've come forwardwith today and it is soappropriate for businesses. Businesses don't want governmenttaking equity in their business. They want to find a way they cancontinue in their businessoperations so they can continueto have the opportunities, bothfor their people and for theirorginisation that they'reseeking. We have been working together asseamus said with orginisationsin the sector. Also speaking to people withinthe various provincialgovernments. We think this is targetedappropriately. It's credit, it's on acommercial basis and it wouldallow businesses -- andbusinesses importantly in theenergy sector -- that areimportant to jobs innewfoundland and labrador, tobridge this time to get to whatwe know is a better time once weget through this crisis.

[Speaking French]

Question:
It sort of soundslike you weren't quite inagreement in your questions. So I guess that i'll ask itagain. In terms of the possibility ofthe government buying equityshares in oil companies, it sortof sounds, minister o'regan,like you were saying maybe?am I correct in understandingwhat you were saying?

NO, WHAT I AM SAYING IS THATWE CONTINUE TO LISTEN TOSTAKEHOLDERS AND TO LISTEN TOTHEIR SUGGESTIONS AND LISTENDIRECTLY TO THEM.MYSELF AND MY COLLEAGUES SPENDMOST OF OUR DAY DOING THAT.WE HAVE LISTENED VERY CAREFULLY.AND SOME THINGS WE'RE ABLE TO DOTODAY.IN THE CASE, FOR INSTANCE, WITHNEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR,THERE'S FURTHER INITIATIVES THATWE'RE LOOKING AT TO KEEP THEINDUSTRY COMPETITIVE.WE'LL BE WORKING WITH THEM ONTHAT.I'D LIKE TO TAKE THE OPPORTUNITYTO SPEAK TO HOW CONSTRUCTIVE OURRELATIONSHIP HAS BEEN WITH THEPROVINCES.I ENJOY VERY GOOD RELATIONSHIPSWITH ENERGY MINISTERS ANDNATURAL RESOURCE MINISTERS RIGHTACROSS THE COUNTRY, ANDCANADIANS SHOULD KNOW HOWCONSTRUCTIVE THEY'VE BEEN,PARTICULARLY THE THREE ENERGYMINISTERS FROM THE THREE OIL ANDGAS-PRODUCING PROVINCES INNEWFOUNDLAND AND LABRADOR ANDSASKATCHEWAN AND, OF COURSE,ALBERTA.THEY HAVE BEEN VERY, VERYCONSTRUCTIVE.AND A LOT OF WHAT WE'VE BEENABLE TO DO WE'VE BEEN ABLE TO DOTOGETHER.[please stand by]AT THIS POINT?

HEATHER STARTED WITH BILL, SO WHY DON'T WE START WITH BILL, TOO.BILL, PLEASE.

WELL, THANKS, HEATHER.SO, FIRST OF ALL, THE BROAD PICTURE, WE RECOGNIZE THERE ARE BUSINESSES ACROSS THE COUNTRY THAT NEED ACCESS TO CREDIT.SO THAT IS CREDITICALLY IMPORTANT.THE EMERGENCY BUSINESS ACCOUNT IS FOR THE SMALLEST OF BUSINESSES.THE CREDIT WE ALREADY PUT OUT OVER THE COURSE OF THE LAST THREE WEEKS THROUGH THE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT BANK AND EXPORT DEVELOPMENT CANADA IS UP TO $12.5 MILLION OF CREDIT FOR SMALL TO MID-SIZED BUSINESSES.WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT TODAY IS FOR CREDIT FOR THOSE MID-SIZED BUSINESSES AND WE START WITH THE ENERGY SECTOR WHERE WE KNOW THE CHALLENGES ARE VERY SIGNIFICANT.IT'S COVID-19, IT IS THE CHALLENGE IN THE CHANGING OIL PRICES AND DECREASE IN DEMAND.THESE THINGS TOGETHER MEANS THAT CREDIT IS VERY MUCH NEEDED FOR THOSE BUSINESSES.THAT IS WHY WE STARTED THERE.THERE WILL BE MORE THAT WE NEED TO DO FOR CREDIT ACROSS MID-SIZED BUSINESSES ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND THAT WILL BE COMING SHORTLY.

SEAMUS?

JUST TO REINFORCE THE POINT THAT THE VAST MAJORITY OF WORKERS IN THE OIL AND GAS SECTOR AND SMALL AND MEDIUM-SIZED BUSINESSES WHETHER IT'S CONTRACTORS OR DRILLERS OR PRODUCER AND SMALL OPERATORS ACROSS THE COUNTRY.SO, FOCUS ON THEM IS A FOCUS ON WORKERS AND ENSURING THAT THESE COMPANIES REMAIN IN TACT SO THAT THESE WORKERS HAVE JOBS TO COME BACK TO ONCE WE GET THROUGH THIS.

Reporter:
Ok. As a follow-up, did you put a number on the --

Rosemary:
Ok. We'll pull away from the federal briefing today and leave you with the notion that the Prime Minister announced earlier, $1. 7 billion to help clean up orphan wells in alberta. More possible credit to come for oil and gas companies that have been hit by a double wantmy of covid-19 and significant drop in oil prices. I'll leave it there for you today. Let us bring you now to toronto where the premier of ontario, doug ford, is speaking.
